Title: Fortune's MightPairing: SS/RLDisclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.Author's Note: I'll make it short. Thank you for taking the time to read this story. I'm always happy about attracting new readers, but I'm just as happy to welcome back those of you who have read some of my fanfic and perhaps even accompanied me on a very long Journey (I wonder if you'll be disappointed or pleased that my newest project after such a long hiatus isn't really new at all).This fanfic is a rewrite of my 2010 fic The Teacher, and an attempt to perfect my favourite project yet. If you were to compare them, or if you've already read The Teacher, you'll find that Fortune's Might differs greatly from the original, not only regarding the new title and my improved style (I hope). Personally, I am very happy with the result, I hope you'll agree and maybe even let me know what you think. There'll be weekly updates every Saturday unless otherwise indicated. And now please enjoy Fortune's Might.Then hate me when thou wilt; if ever, now;Now, while the world is bent my deeds to cross,Join with the spite of fortune, make me bow,And do not drop in for an after-loss:Ah! do not, when my heart hath 'scaped this sorrow,Come in the rearward of a conquered woe;Give not a windy night a rainy morrow,To linger out a purposed overthrow.If thou wilt leave me, do not leave me last,When other petty griefs have done their spite,But in the onset come: so shall I tasteAt first the very worst of fortune's might;And other strains of woe, which now seem woe,Compared with loss of thee, will not seem so.William Shakespeare, Sonnet 90Lesson One: Fait AccompliIcy rain was falling. The coldness that spread over the grounds and up to Hogwarts Castle from the village of Hogsmeade was not of the natural kind that followed in dusk's wake when the warmth of the sun slowly departed, held only by stone, water, or grass. It was the breathing of the Dementors stationed outside the perimeter walls that spread this coldness, that sucked from the air not only the warmth of the summer's day, but also all the positive feelings that usually accompanied the many people streaming into the school on the first of September. Everybody in the castle and the village had different feelings about the Dementors, though it was certain that nobody was entirely pleased that they were there, some surely believed to be safer with them gliding about, searching for an escaped convict who was rumoured to be on his way to Hogwarts.To Professor Severus Snape they meant horrible memories resurfacing, bringing with them guilt, shame, and grief that had been buried in the darkest corners of his mind under the rather less unpleasant memories and thoughts of the past twelve years. It was dreadful how he suddenly remembered the faces of people whose lives he had seen being snuffed out, how he could recall the looks on their faces and the sickening feeling that had filled him when he had cast the Killing Curse for the first time.Severus Snape was a private man, he would not talk about those experiences to anyone, which, as the Headmaster had pointed out to him, probably made them so hard to bear. Albus Dumbledore did not need Severus to put into words what he felt when the Dementors drew near, he knew the horrors of Severus's past like no other and understood better than anyone why he wished them gone. Albus, too, harboured a deep loathing for the creatures, had seen things in his past that he did not want to return to him so clearly as they did with the Dementors outside the perimeter walls of Hogwarts Castle.But other than Severus, Albus could conceal the effect they had on him rather well. Severus, so Minerva McGonagall had said just this morning upon seeing him for the first time after the summer holidays, had turned even more unpleasant and vicious with the Dementors around, but she didn't blame him, for, she admitted, she herself was in rather a miserable mood. They would have to get used to it, wouldn't they?The silence in the dungeons seemed even more absolute than usual, the only sound to be heard were Severus's footsteps echoing off the stone walls as he walked swiftly up the stairs after having finished the final preparations for the new school year. He was colder than usual too, inside and out. The Entrance Hall seemed emptier, more desolate, and the corridors more deserted than usual. The year ahead of him felt even less promising than it usually did when Severus knew he would not teach Defence Against the Dark Arts, and he thought the annoyed frustration about the unknown new staff member and Albus's secrecy seemed even more pronounced and powerful than the anger and indignation at Lockhart's appointment a year ago. He knew those were illusions, but he could not push them away. The moment Severus entered the staff room, he saw that the other teachers felt the same way. Everybody wore miserable expressions, there was no laughter in the room, no cheery conversations after weeks and weeks of not having seen each other.Severus sat down in his favourite armchair by the fire, a little apart from the others as usual, and stared into the flames, his ears filled with the hushed voices of his colleagues as his mind drifted into the distance, fastening on more negative thoughts about the coming school year. Usually Severus looked forward to the start of term, for he could escape the desolate surroundings of Spinner's End and return to his much more comfortable rooms in the dungeons. This year though, Harry Potter and his fellow Gryffindors weren't the only factors that darkened this prospect. All summer, the papers had been full of a man whom Severus had hoped never to lay eyes on again. When Sirius Black had been arrested those twelve years ago, Severus had felt a grim satisfaction that his childhood tormentor had got what he deserved. But fate had never been kind to Severus. Somehow, as the first wizard ever to achieve it, Black had escaped from Azkaban, and was now on his way to Hogwarts to kill Harry Potter, or so rumour had it.But as angry as Black's face in the papers had made Severus throughout the summer, he also felt a vindictive anticipation when he thought about Black's target, Harry Potter, because Severus had once sworn to protect that boy and this time it would be his pleasure to stop Black and punish him, face to face, and prove to him who had the upper hand now. But what chance did he have to capture Black when there were Dementors all over the place? Surely Black would not even get close to the castle. The Dark Lord's right hand – ha! – all good and well, but Severus, who had been close to the Dark Lord, who had been in the inner circle, did not know magic that would help Black break through Dumbledore's protection.Severus sighed as McGonagall sat down beside him, giving him a stern look. Working with his former teachers was sometimes tiresome, for they treated him like a student, like a child at times, even though he was Head of House himself. McGonagall would always give him those looks that she usually gave misbehaving students. But he thought she respected him. It was mutual. Severus's respect was earned, not given, and she had earned it well. But he hated it when she gave him that look that clearly meant to say that he was going to be told something unpleasant."Did the Headmaster tell you whom he has appointed Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher?" she asked and he shook his head slowly, quite tired of this topic. It was the twelfth year running now. Albus had refused him the post for the twelfth year running."He said he had found somebody else when I asked him whether he would finally consider me for the position," said Severus quietly, "and he assured me that the new candidate would be far better suited than Lockhart.""To which you replied that that only meant that he was not a completely incapable fraud," said McGonagall with the shadow of a smile. Severus glanced at her and grew slightly suspicious."You've talked about me?" he asked. McGonagall did not reply. "I hoped that Dumbledore had finally run out of dunderheads to appoint, but apparently he has found yet another sorry soul who's volunteering to meet a tragic fate at the end of the school year. Another incompetent fool, no doubt."McGonagall's lips thinned. "The Headmaster really didn't tell you who it is, then?" she asked and was unusually careful. Severus narrowed his eyes at her and shook his head again. "Well, you will find that he – oh, excuse me for a moment," she added and strode to the window. Severus turned his head towards it and saw an owl sitting outside, carrying a roll of parchment. McGonagall opened the window, letting in the rushing sound of the falling rain, and took the note. She unrolled it and walked unconsciously back to where Severus was sitting, shutting the window with a swish of her wand. A small smile flitted over her face before it was squashed by anger. "Ah, those horrible creatures," she muttered as she sat back down. "Thank God he was with the children.""What?" said Severus impatiently and she looked up, giving him another stern look."The Dementors searched the school train and Potter fainted," she said shortly and Severus raised an eyebrow at her. "It was to be expected, I suppose. Fortunately, our new teacher is on the train, and he sent me this note." Again that mysterious smile conquered her lips for a moment. "His handwriting still is horrible." A reminiscent note lay in her voice as she slipped the piece of parchment into her pocket."So he isn't a secret, is he?" asked Severus, now more interested than ever in the new Professor. "Albus only didn't want me to know who it is? Do tell me his name, then, Minerva, it must be somebody I know, else Dumbledore would not have bothered to keep it from me."When Severus had arrived at Hogwarts Castle a few hours ago, he had thought that it would be another one of those years, during which he had to watch another idiot fighting his way through the Defence job, teaching the students nothing at all and annoying Severus immensely, while everyone knew that they would only stay for one year. The Headmaster had long run out of competent volunteers for the position. Lockhart had been the last straw. But apparently Albus believed that there was another person whom Severus would loathe so powerfully that telling him their name before term started meant risking open rebellion and far more trouble than it was worth.But McGonagall did not yield the information. He saw her lips thinning as she got to her feet again. "The children are about to arrive, please excuse me, Severus, I need to inform Poppy so she can look after Potter when he arrives and I need to give Granger her Time-Turner," she said and started to walk away."Wait a moment," said Severus suspiciously, "what did that new teacher do when Potter fainted?"McGonagall turned back to him and this time the smile stayed on her face. "He chased the Dementor away and handed out chocolate," she said simply and left the staff room. Severus scowled after her and tried to catch somebody else's eye but it seemed they had all been conditioned by Albus not to tell him anything. Maybe Albus thought he was being clever, but no matter whom he had found to fill the position, Severus would do his best to make sure that they had a very hard time at Hogwarts.When some time later the buzzing voices of the arriving students reached the staffroom, everybody got ready for the feast and Professor Flitwick went to fetch the Sorting Hat because McGonagall was still tending to Potter and Granger, it seemed. Severus was just making to get to his feet when the door opened again and his colleagues all looked round to greet Dumbledore. Severus did not look round. He wanted to show Albus that he was still angry that he hadn't got the Defence job. Even though really being angry was becoming increasingly difficult, too much time had passed. It was merely a stubborn indignation now. But when the other teachers all approached the door, it was not Albus's voice that spoke to them but another man's. A voice that Severus could not seem to recognise despite its faintly familiar sound. He got to his feet, turned slowly round, and to his horror he found the reason why Albus had not told him the name of the new Defence teacher.Just inside the door, looking rather astonished at the warm welcome he received, stood werewolf Remus Lupin. Albus had his hand on Lupin's shoulder, smiling behind his beard. Severus blinked to make sure that his eyes weren't playing a trick on him, but this was definitely Lupin, though Severus had not seen him in over twelve years, he knew his face well. True, he had changed rather strikingly, looking extremely shabby in his darned, threadbare robes, even more so because all the other teachers were wearing their very best. Lupin had grown older, his hair was greying, and he had a tired air about him, as though he hadn't slept in days, dark rings under his eyes – Severus registered briefly that last night had been the night of the full moon. Lupin was unhealthily thin, that much was evident even with the roomy robes that hung loosely round his frame. It was probably his condition taking its toll. But Severus could not care about such details now, when he finally had proof that Albus had gone mad.Lockhart had merely been a desperate choice, there had been no one else who would have wanted to subject themselves to what was obviously a curse that ejected every DADA professor after a year of teaching, with more or less grave consequences. But employing a werewolf as DADA teacher, a werewolf, on top of everything, who had almost eaten Severus alive once, was not only questionable, it was outrageous and surely on the brink of being illegal! If the parents or the board of governors found out, Dumbledore would lose his job, no doubt. And Severus just couldn't believe that the other teachers had agreed to this, some of them having been teachers in Severus's time, like Flitwick and McGonagall, and therefore knowing full well what that man in front of them was. Had nobody objected to his employment? Had nobody been concerned about the children? Had nobody believed that this person might help Black into the castle, his old friend, possibly his accomplice? Had nobody remembered that this man had once been part of the gang that had made Severus's school days hell?But judging by the way they all greeted Lupin interestedly, they were either unaware of his condition or they did not care. Severus strongly suspected that Albus had not told everybody about Lupin's lycanthropy, for he could not believe that so many of his colleagues were free of prejudice or fear. True enough, Lupin did not look remotely frightening. In fact he looked positively amiable the way he smiled mildly at everybody who shook his hand. Severus could have strangled him with his bare hands right then and there.He did not care that it was obvious that life had not been kind to Lupin. No life could be unkind enough to atone for what he had done to Severus, no punishment would have been hard enough to erase Severus's bitterness. How dare he walk in here with that nonchalant smile and that self-confident air and snatch away Severus's job? Had he no decency? Had he no shame? Momentarily, Severus's anger about Black, Potter, and the Dementors was wiped away by a wave of loathing as Lupin's tired eyes turned on him and his smile twitched as he cocked his head to the side and his greying hair fell into his forehead. For an instant, Severus thought that something about this was unusual and he realised that Lupin had never looked at him directly at school, never met his eyes, always averted his own. But now he seemed bold, unafraid of Severus's wrath. Perhaps Albus had told him that Severus wouldn't make a scene in front of the other teachers, but that had been a big mistake.That was typical of Albus. He hadn't even asked Severus for his consent, knowing that he wouldn't receive it. But he couldn't do this to Severus. Severus deserved respect, he deserved to be informed of such decisions as this, he ought to be consulted like the other Heads of Houses when a werewolf was appointed to teach his students and live under the same roof as them! What was Albus playing at, summoning this man out of nowhere? Surely he just wanted to annoy Severus thoroughly, he would think it amusing. Perhaps he had merely forgotten that Lupin had almost killed Severus, had played a lethal prank on him with his good-for-nothing friends and found it unnecessary to live up to his prefect's badge and stop them tormenting Severus. In Albus's memory there was only room for his precious Gryffindor favourites, who had assured him that they felt sorry for almost killing Severus on purpose.Positively fuming with those thoughts, Severus strode towards Lupin and Albus, who were still standing at the door, chatting with the other teachers, and knocked a few of his colleagues out of the way as others retreated, noticing the murderous look on his face. As he drew nearer, he attracted Albus's attention and the Headmaster's eyes twinkled annoyingly as he spoke."Ah, Severus! May I present you with our new Defence Against the –""So this was your brilliant plan?" Severus cut across him angrily, jerking his head at Lupin. "Telling me nothing about him until it was already too late for me to object? While everybody else was informed you kept me in the dark! Do you consider this a proper way of treating one of your Heads of Houses?""Do you think your objection would have made a difference, Severus?" asked Albus pleasantly, surveying him over his half-moon spectacles, and Severus was very close to jinxing him. He must look dangerous, too, since the sparse rest of his colleagues backed off now, knowing how unpleasant he could be.But all the while, Lupin showed no sign of intimidation or caution. Though he seemed mildly surprised, he did not move an inch but merely raised his eyebrows, glancing at Albus as his face gave away a trace of dawning comprehension and disapproval. "I take it you did not tell Severus about my appointment, Headmaster?" he said hoarsely. He sounded different, too, much older, and his calm resolution in the face of Severus's anger bore no resemblance to the boy he had once been. "I thought he had been informed. You said he had agreed to –""How daft must you be to think that I would ever agree to your appointment?" snapped Severus, whose anger was only multiplied by Lupin's calmness. Lupin raised his eyebrows higher and the corners of his mouth twitched, but he did not respond. Severus thought he detected amusement in the wrinkles round Lupin's eyes and found him an impertinent dunderhead."Severus," Albus said in a warning tone. "Neither of you would have agreed if you had known the truth. So I – ah – warped the facts a little."Severus wanted to make a retort but then something popped into his mind. During the summer holidays, Albus had approached him about a new discovery made in the field of lycanthropy potions that Severus had tried to ignore stubbornly because it had been made by the show-off Damocles Belby and earned him an Order of Merlin: the Wolfsbane Potion, that rendered a werewolf harmless at the full moon when drunk during the week preceding it, having the effect of keeping the werewolf in his right mind even when in the wolf's body. Albus had asked whether Severus had heard of it, for it was quite sensational, and if he thought he could brew it, since it seemed quite a complex potion to make. Severus had, of course, shot him a venomous look and replied, "Brew it? I could improve it to ten times the quality it has now. Whatever Belby thought he was doing, presenting the world with this piece of imperfect brewery …"In other words, "Whatever Belby can do, I can do better!" But really, how could he have foreseen that Albus was asking him that question for such a purpose as this? Moreover, Albus obviously expected him to dedicate his precious time to the well-being of a werewolf who had not only been part of Black and Potter's bullying gang but also knowingly tried to kill him as a teenager. He could not possibly believe that Severus would take it just like that."I am astounded that you did not even warn me, that you did not even ask me if I'd be willing to sacrifice my free time to –""Quite frankly, Severus," interrupted Albus, his voice rising slightly to drown Severus's, "I had no interest in being badgered by you all over the summer with complaints, threats and reproaches merely because I did a Headmaster's duty and appointed a new teacher for a vacant post. I much rather wanted the two of us to enjoy a quiet summer without ill feelings. For you must believe me that, though I do value your opinion, none of your objections to this particular choice of staffing would have changed anything about my resolution to appoint Remus." He paused, smiled at Lupin, who was looking between Albus and Severus with raised eyebrows and twitching lips, apparently unsure whether to smile or not in the face of Severus's indignation. "And I would consider your extraordinary skill wasted if you didn't use them benevolently at least once in your life, my boy," added Albus when Severus took a deep breath to argue again."You are making a severe mistake, Headmaster, in appointing this man," said Severus forcefully, pointing at Lupin and shooting him a look of deepest contempt that he deflected with a calm smile. "And if you think that you can force me to –""Severus," Albus cut in, now applying a tone that was dangerous in its coldness. Severus fell silent at once, but glared at Lupin relentlessly. "I chose the one man that I thought best for the job. It was my decision and if I remember correctly I am the Headmaster of this school and that is why you will accept my decision and do what you are told, I think I deserve that much respect. And now enough of your complaints!"Severus was fuming. He hated being told off. But he did not dare say anything more on the topic. "You spoke to the other teachers, then?" he pressed and now Lupin did look a little apprehensive as he, too, looked round at Albus. Apparently he feared that Albus had "warped the facts" concerning this detail, too."I spoke to the other Heads of Houses," said Albus with a nod to Professor Sprout, who was watching the scene, and Professor Flitwick, who was just passing the staffroom with the Sorting Hat, "and with the assurance that I would take full responsibility, they agreed to let him have a try. I told them and Remus that you would brew the Wolfsbane Potion for him, to the best of your ability if I know you, to keep Remus safe at the full moon. That is the sole condition Remus set for coming here and since I have full trust and confidence in you, Severus, I also have full trust and confidence in Remus's ability to teach here, as one of us. As for most of the other teachers, as well as the students, I must ask you to remember the promise you once made to keep Remus's condition a secret. Needless to mention that I would find it rather extraordinarily tactless if any of us addressed the topic in any kind of public conversation anyway."Severus looked from one to the other of them in stubborn silence for a few moments, taking in Albus's demanding gaze and Lupin's expectant look, then he jerked his head in defiant consent, seeing no way around it. Lupin looked relieved and smiled all the more warmly at Severus, who gave him his coldest, most scathing glare. But it had no effect whatsoever on the werewolf. Even Lupin's mere sight made Severus sick. The kindness in his eyes in the face of Severus's anger was plainly provocative. Severus was sure it was meant to be. He wondered how Albus imagined this to work."Excellent, Severus! Naturally I shall provide you with all the ingredients you need and of course you will be relieved of certain other duties to make time for the brewing of Remus's Potion. I do hope that you two will be able to work alongside each other in peace," added Albus sharply and Severus gave him an incredulous look that Albus did not miss. "I do rely on you, Severus, and I hope that you will not disappoint me."Severus stared daggers at him for this aside. He knew that it was a warning of the Dumbledorish kind. "I shall do my best, Headmaster," Severus pressed between clenched teeth and with balled fists."I never doubted that, Severus," replied Albus nodding, but though Lupin's face gave away no doubt, his eyes flickered towards the Headmaster, and Severus knew that he had not been so sure about Severus doing his best until a moment ago. In an instant, though, Lupin had covered this up and looked at Severus with gratitude quite plain and disgusting on his face."Well, then I thank you very much, Severus," he said hoarsely and with a familiarity that Severus found highly inappropriate when it was so clear that contempt was radiating from him. But Lupin did have the sense not to extend his hand to shake Severus's. So he must be able to read the situation but was stubborn enough to keep up the friendly politeness."I am not doing this for you," said Severus coldly, looking him straight in the eye, finding an amber colour that he had never noticed there nor seen in anybody else's eyes before. "I am merely doing my duty," he added in a snarl and now glared daggers at Lupin instead of Albus. But Lupin seemed entirely unaffected and merely raised his eyebrows again with that amused light playing around his eyes."I thank you nonetheless," he said mildly, and for a moment Severus wondered if this really was the boy he had known, for he seemed so different.Lupin was relaxed and self-assured, he did not avert his eyes when Severus looked into them, he did not back down. But at the same time he was not offensive or aggressive, the provocation lay in his unwaveringly calm smile itself, not in his behaviour, which was friendly and quite at ease. He did not attack, he merely stood his ground come what may, or so it seemed to Severus, he was steadfast and would bend to nobody. Like a rock in the middle of a stream would not budge when water rushed towards it, no matter how wild or strong. It commanded a strange kind of respect in Severus that he could not fight. People who would not back down when he confronted them always had that effect on him. But it was not the same defiance that McGonagall sported. It was quiet and gentle, surreptitious and taciturn. One less attentive than Severus would miss it. But to him it was clearly visible in that determined smile, never changing, that was curling the werewolf's lips so mysteriously into a silent mask that was much less obvious than Severus's, much less obtrusive. And despite himself, Severus wished he could prise it off and see what lay beyond it."Ah, Remus, Minerva told me about the Dementor on the train and that you fought it," said Albus pleasantly into the stretching silence and Severus noticed that he was staring at Lupin, who was gazing back quite steadily. Severus averted his eyes before he could stop himself, scowling around the room in the attempt of making it look as though he had merely been unable to bear Lupin's sight any longer. But something told him that Lupin knew he had just gained a first small victory."Yes, but unfortunately Harry had already fainted, and he was quite shaken when his friends woke him," said Lupin, sounding grim for the first time. "Of course I had some chocolate on me, just in case. But the damage had been done, the children were quite shocked, and I believe you know as well as I what Harry must have felt when that wretched creature entered the compartment. It is irresponsible to let them loose on the students, Sirius Black on the run or not.""I quite agree," said Albus gravely and Severus looked round at them, two Gryffindors in greatest worry about the bloody Potter brat. "But I could not refuse. At least I managed to prevent them coming into the grounds. I am glad you were with the children, Remus, who knows what would have happened if you hadn't been there to help. I trust Minerva has already thanked you?""Oh, yes," replied Lupin and looked both abashed and pleased, "I met her right inside the castle, just briefly. I was very pleased to see her again.""And she to see you, trust me," said Albus, his eyes twinkling. "She was very concerned about the safety of her students –""Student," interjected Severus and they both looked at him, Lupin amused, Albus scolding."Well, now that we have resolved this," said Albus with a significant look between Severus and Lupin, "I believe we could all do with a good dinner. Let us go to the Great Hall," he added loudly to the other teachers and he led the way through the doors, followed by the staff.But Lupin did not move, he nodded at the teachers passing him, all of whom seemed rather fond of him already, but stayed put himself, standing opposite Severus with his smile back in place. Severus stayed where he was, narrowing his eyes at Lupin, and expected him to have something more to say to him. Curiosity had got the better of him now, and when he searched the werewolf's amber eyes, he found that his mind was rather tightly closed, impossible to penetrate for Severus without the werewolf noticing. It awoke his interest. What lay hidden behind that smile, those eyes? When the last of their colleagues had left the staffroom, something odd happened to Lupin's smile. It changed quite suddenly, became so different that it startled Severus for a moment. In an instant it had changed so entirely without any real physical change to it that Severus wondered if he imagined it."I hope we will get along well," said Lupin, inclining his head in an amicable way that made Severus snort."Hope can be treacherous," he retorted silkily, folding his arms tightly over his chest.Lupin's smile widened and he shrugged. "And it never dies," said he and his voice was soft. Then he chuckled and again Severus had the impression that he was quite at ease and enjoying himself. At Severus's expense no doubt. His chuckle was quite husky and Severus wondered what it was that made the man so hoarse. Underneath the premature lines and grey hair Lupin looked young and handsome. But he appeared very tired indeed, worn, like a miner at the end of the day, a miner who had not eaten in days.But Severus was far from pitying him. He felt positively livid. Lupin could not possibly be labouring under the delusion that Severus could just forget what had happened between them. The fact that Lupin would almost have had to remove what remained of Severus from between his teeth was too serious to just push it aside and act as though nothing had happened. It was unimaginable that Lupin actually believed that they could "get along well". Severus would pay him back with contempt for every single second that he had to spare for brewing that highly complex Potion, which prevented the werewolf destroying his rooms. Besides, Severus didn't like the fact that there was now yet another person at Hogwarts who remembered him as a helpless, worthless boy.But most shocking of all was perhaps that, despite his hatred for the man, Severus could not help noticing the curve of his jaw, the unwavering smile and the twitching in the corners of his mouth, but most of all the magnificent amber colour of his eyes, twinkling much like Albus's, shining golden in the candlelight, as more than merely agreeable. He appreciated this kind of handsomeness, enhanced by the lines the past years had carved into Lupin's skin and the silver streaks it had painted into his light brown hair. It was the kind that would have caught his eye had he passed the werewolf in the street, unaware of his identity. Notwithstanding the shabbiness of his robes, the tired expression, the unhealthily thin frame, the dark rings under his eyes. Lupin was the kind of man who looked nonchalantly, effortlessly handsome even when ill. Whose smile captured Severus's eyes and would not let them go again.Severus wanted to make it disappear, he couldn't bear it. "Life hasn't been kind to you, has it, Lupin?" he said smoothly as Lupin made to turn away. Lupin stopped but made no reply. He seemed to be waiting for more to come. "I would have thought that you'd at least buy yourself a new set of robes for tonight."Lupin turned slowly round, his smile still twitching mysteriously. He met Severus's glare quite steadily with his astonishingly amber eyes. Yes, amber, indeed, not usual brown. But that was neither here nor there. Still there was something in them, some strange light that almost made Severus back off. "It means nothing to me," said Lupin, cocking his head to the side again. "It surprises me that it does to you." He said it quite calmly but Severus couldn't help feeling uneasy.As Lupin turned, his smile widening still, Severus thought he looked as though he wore those patched robes like ermine and purple round his shoulders and that impression did not cease when he glanced at him at the High Table, sitting rather far away from him. Even though he looked even shabbier in the Great Hall, with its gold plates and everybody in their best robes, he had an air about him like a weary king, surrounded by his noisy entourage. One could have thought he was wearing the most magnificent robes of all, for all it seemed to matter to him. Remus Lupin seemed to be looking past such sordid matters as appearance, had learnt, perhaps, that it made no difference how expensive or handsome one's clothes were if they concealed a rotten character. And maybe it was what people called "inner beauty" that enhanced his outer appearance. Severus shook his head at the thought. Ridiculous.Lupin looked as though he was quite happy where he was, sitting beside Flitwick, chatting with him rather animatedly. Severus found that he was insolent for showing so openly that he relished the position that should have been Severus's when it was Severus who enabled him to work at Hogwarts. Shooting loathing glances down the table at Lupin, Severus wondered how he could manage to get rid of him without actually laying hands on him. Albus would know if he did. But having to associate with Lupin for a whole year, not least of all because of the Wolfsbane, was promising to make this year an especially unpleasant one. Not even the prospect of catching Black could lighten Severus's mood. Dementors, werewolves, and murderers everywhere. It couldn't be a coincidence that Lupin turned up now of all times, when Black was on his way to Hogwarts. Albus must see this connection, he could not be so blind, this werewolf could not be trusted, Albus had seen what he was capable of even at a young age.After the feast, Severus returned to his rooms, frustrated and tired. He shed his robes on his way to bed and fell into the sheets with a heavy sigh. What if Lupin helped Black to kill Potter? How would Albus feel then about his decision to appoint Lupin instead of Severus? Not that Severus didn't approve of any plan that involved Potter's untimely death. He sighed again. No, this wasn't about Black or Potter, this was about the fact that Albus had appointed a man who had helped making Severus's adolescence the most unpleasant and humiliating time of his life. He felt betrayed. He would have to talk to Albus. First thing in the morning.He pulled the blanket over his head and closed his eyes. And thought of Lupin's face. He couldn't help it. This was something irrational that couldn't be suffocated by his dislike. It was inexplicable. There was something in those eyes and that smile, in that mild face that made Severus feel … no, impossible, he shouldn't even think about that. But it was there, no doubt, a feeling he couldn't suppress, fueled by that involuntary respect Lupin commanded. It was inappropriate and unwanted. But something about Lupin had Severus see him even when his eyes were closed. And his mere sight made his anger cease, replaced by a burning curiosity and a wish to figure him out. He had felt it before, at school. And yet he hated the man, he loathed him for it. And now he had to bear his terribly relaxed behaviour and his annoyingly mysterious smiles. There was nothing he could do about it. But as he lay there, drifting off to sleep, his last irrational thought was that he might not want Lupin to go away at all, at least not before he had unraveled the mystery behind those defiant smiles.

	Title: Fortune's Might
	Title:
	 Fortune's Might
	Pairing: SS/RL
	Pairing:
	Disclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.
	Disclaimer
	Author's Note: I'll make it short. Thank you for taking the time to read this story. I'm always happy about attracting new readers, but I'm just as happy to welcome back those of you who have read some of my fanfic and perhaps even accompanied me on a very long Journey (I wonder if you'll be disappointed or pleased that my newest project after such a long hiatus isn't really new at all).
	Author's Note
	Journey
	This fanfic is a rewrite of my 2010 fic The Teacher, and an attempt to perfect my favourite project yet. If you were to compare them, or if you've already read The Teacher, you'll find that Fortune's Might differs greatly from the original, not only regarding the new title and my improved style (I hope). Personally, I am very happy with the result, I hope you'll agree and maybe even let me know what you think. There'll be weekly updates every Saturday unless otherwise indicated. And now please enjoy Fortune's Might.
	The Teacher
	Fortune's Might
	Fortune's Might
	
	Then hate me when thou wilt; if ever, now;Now, while the world is bent my deeds to cross,Join with the spite of fortune, make me bow,And do not drop in for an after-loss:Ah! do not, when my heart hath 'scaped this sorrow,Come in the rearward of a conquered woe;Give not a windy night a rainy morrow,To linger out a purposed overthrow.If thou wilt leave me, do not leave me last,When other petty griefs have done their spite,But in the onset come: so shall I tasteAt first the very worst of fortune's might;And other strains of woe, which now seem woe,Compared with loss of thee, will not seem so.
	Then hate me when thou wilt; if ever, now;
	
	Now, while the world is bent my deeds to cross,
	
	Join with the spite of fortune, make me bow,
	
	And do not drop in for an after-loss:
	
	Ah! do not, when my heart hath 'scaped this sorrow,
	
	Come in the rearward of a conquered woe;
	
	Give not a windy night a rainy morrow,
	
	To linger out a purposed overthrow.
	
	If thou wilt leave me, do not leave me last,
	
	When other petty griefs have done their spite,
	
	But in the onset come: so shall I taste
	
	At first the very worst of fortune's might;
	
	And other strains of woe, which now seem woe,
	
	Compared with loss of thee, will not seem so.
	William Shakespeare, Sonnet 90
	Lesson One: Fait Accompli
	Lesson One: Fait Accompli
	Icy rain was falling. The coldness that spread over the grounds and up to Hogwarts Castle from the village of Hogsmeade was not of the natural kind that followed in dusk's wake when the warmth of the sun slowly departed, held only by stone, water, or grass. It was the breathing of the Dementors stationed outside the perimeter walls that spread this coldness, that sucked from the air not only the warmth of the summer's day, but also all the positive feelings that usually accompanied the many people streaming into the school on the first of September. Everybody in the castle and the village had different feelings about the Dementors, though it was certain that nobody was entirely pleased that they were there, some surely believed to be safer with them gliding about, searching for an escaped convict who was rumoured to be on his way to Hogwarts.
	To Professor Severus Snape they meant horrible memories resurfacing, bringing with them guilt, shame, and grief that had been buried in the darkest corners of his mind under the rather less unpleasant memories and thoughts of the past twelve years. It was dreadful how he suddenly remembered the faces of people whose lives he had seen being snuffed out, how he could recall the looks on their faces and the sickening feeling that had filled him when he had cast the Killing Curse for the first time.
	Severus Snape was a private man, he would not talk about those experiences to anyone, which, as the Headmaster had pointed out to him, probably made them so hard to bear. Albus Dumbledore did not need Severus to put into words what he felt when the Dementors drew near, he knew the horrors of Severus's past like no other and understood better than anyone why he wished them gone. Albus, too, harboured a deep loathing for the creatures, had seen things in his past that he did not want to return to him so clearly as they did with the Dementors outside the perimeter walls of Hogwarts Castle.
	But other than Severus, Albus could conceal the effect they had on him rather well. Severus, so Minerva McGonagall had said just this morning upon seeing him for the first time after the summer holidays, had turned even more unpleasant and vicious with the Dementors around, but she didn't blame him, for, she admitted, she herself was in rather a miserable mood. They would have to get used to it, wouldn't they?
	The silence in the dungeons seemed even more absolute than usual, the only sound to be heard were Severus's footsteps echoing off the stone walls as he walked swiftly up the stairs after having finished the final preparations for the new school year. He was colder than usual too, inside and out. The Entrance Hall seemed emptier, more desolate, and the corridors more deserted than usual. The year ahead of him felt even less promising than it usually did when Severus knew he would not teach Defence Against the Dark Arts, and he thought the annoyed frustration about the unknown new staff member and Albus's secrecy seemed even more pronounced and powerful than the anger and indignation at Lockhart's appointment a year ago. He knew those were illusions, but he could not push them away. The moment Severus entered the staff room, he saw that the other teachers felt the same way. Everybody wore miserable expressions, there was no laughter in the room, no cheery conversations after weeks and weeks of not having seen each other.
	Severus sat down in his favourite armchair by the fire, a little apart from the others as usual, and stared into the flames, his ears filled with the hushed voices of his colleagues as his mind drifted into the distance, fastening on more negative thoughts about the coming school year. Usually Severus looked forward to the start of term, for he could escape the desolate surroundings of Spinner's End and return to his much more comfortable rooms in the dungeons. This year though, Harry Potter and his fellow Gryffindors weren't the only factors that darkened this prospect. All summer, the papers had been full of a man whom Severus had hoped never to lay eyes on again. When Sirius Black had been arrested those twelve years ago, Severus had felt a grim satisfaction that his childhood tormentor had got what he deserved. But fate had never been kind to Severus. Somehow, as the first wizard ever to achieve it, Black had escaped from Azkaban, and was now on his way to Hogwarts to kill Harry Potter, or so rumour had it.
	But as angry as Black's face in the papers had made Severus throughout the summer, he also felt a vindictive anticipation when he thought about Black's target, Harry Potter, because Severus had once sworn to protect that boy and this time it would be his pleasure to stop Black and punish him, face to face, and prove to him who had the upper hand now. But what chance did he have to capture Black when there were Dementors all over the place? Surely Black would not even get close to the castle. The Dark Lord's right hand – ha! – all good and well, but Severus, who had been close to the Dark Lord, who had been in the inner circle, did not know magic that would help Black break through Dumbledore's protection.
	Severus sighed as McGonagall sat down beside him, giving him a stern look. Working with his former teachers was sometimes tiresome, for they treated him like a student, like a child at times, even though he was Head of House himself. McGonagall would always give him those looks that she usually gave misbehaving students. But he thought she respected him. It was mutual. Severus's respect was earned, not given, and she had earned it well. But he hated it when she gave him that look that clearly meant to say that he was going to be told something unpleasant.
	"Did the Headmaster tell you whom he has appointed Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher?" she asked and he shook his head slowly, quite tired of this topic. It was the twelfth year running now. Albus had refused him the post for the twelfth year running.
	"He said he had found somebody else when I asked him whether he would finally consider me for the position," said Severus quietly, "and he assured me that the new candidate would be far better suited than Lockhart."
	"To which you replied that that only meant that he was not a completely incapable fraud," said McGonagall with the shadow of a smile. Severus glanced at her and grew slightly suspicious.
	"You've talked about me?" he asked. McGonagall did not reply. "I hoped that Dumbledore had finally run out of dunderheads to appoint, but apparently he has found yet another sorry soul who's volunteering to meet a tragic fate at the end of the school year. Another incompetent fool, no doubt."
	McGonagall's lips thinned. "The Headmaster really didn't tell you who it is, then?" she asked and was unusually careful. Severus narrowed his eyes at her and shook his head again. "Well, you will find that he – oh, excuse me for a moment," she added and strode to the window. Severus turned his head towards it and saw an owl sitting outside, carrying a roll of parchment. McGonagall opened the window, letting in the rushing sound of the falling rain, and took the note. She unrolled it and walked unconsciously back to where Severus was sitting, shutting the window with a swish of her wand. A small smile flitted over her face before it was squashed by anger. "Ah, those horrible creatures," she muttered as she sat back down. "Thank God he was with the children."
	"What?" said Severus impatiently and she looked up, giving him another stern look.
	"The Dementors searched the school train and Potter fainted," she said shortly and Severus raised an eyebrow at her. "It was to be expected, I suppose. Fortunately, our new teacher is on the train, and he sent me this note." Again that mysterious smile conquered her lips for a moment. "His handwriting still is horrible." A reminiscent note lay in her voice as she slipped the piece of parchment into her pocket.
	"So he isn't a secret, is he?" asked Severus, now more interested than ever in the new Professor. "Albus only didn't want me to know who it is? Do tell me his name, then, Minerva, it must be somebody I know, else Dumbledore would not have bothered to keep it from me."
	me
	When Severus had arrived at Hogwarts Castle a few hours ago, he had thought that it would be another one of those years, during which he had to watch another idiot fighting his way through the Defence job, teaching the students nothing at all and annoying Severus immensely, while everyone knew that they would only stay for one year. The Headmaster had long run out of competent volunteers for the position. Lockhart had been the last straw. But apparently Albus believed that there was another person whom Severus would loathe so powerfully that telling him their name before term started meant risking open rebellion and far more trouble than it was worth.
	But McGonagall did not yield the information. He saw her lips thinning as she got to her feet again. "The children are about to arrive, please excuse me, Severus, I need to inform Poppy so she can look after Potter when he arrives and I need to give Granger her Time-Turner," she said and started to walk away.
	"Wait a moment," said Severus suspiciously, "what did that new teacher do when Potter fainted?"
	McGonagall turned back to him and this time the smile stayed on her face. "He chased the Dementor away and handed out chocolate," she said simply and left the staff room. Severus scowled after her and tried to catch somebody else's eye but it seemed they had all been conditioned by Albus not to tell him anything. Maybe Albus thought he was being clever, but no matter whom he had found to fill the position, Severus would do his best to make sure that they had a very hard time at Hogwarts.
	When some time later the buzzing voices of the arriving students reached the staffroom, everybody got ready for the feast and Professor Flitwick went to fetch the Sorting Hat because McGonagall was still tending to Potter and Granger, it seemed. Severus was just making to get to his feet when the door opened again and his colleagues all looked round to greet Dumbledore. Severus did not look round. He wanted to show Albus that he was still angry that he hadn't got the Defence job. Even though really being angry was becoming increasingly difficult, too much time had passed. It was merely a stubborn indignation now. But when the other teachers all approached the door, it was not Albus's voice that spoke to them but another man's. A voice that Severus could not seem to recognise despite its faintly familiar sound. He got to his feet, turned slowly round, and to his horror he found the reason why Albus had not told him the name of the new Defence teacher.
	Just inside the door, looking rather astonished at the warm welcome he received, stood werewolf Remus Lupin. Albus had his hand on Lupin's shoulder, smiling behind his beard. Severus blinked to make sure that his eyes weren't playing a trick on him, but this was definitely Lupin, though Severus had not seen him in over twelve years, he knew his face well. True, he had changed rather strikingly, looking extremely shabby in his darned, threadbare robes, even more so because all the other teachers were wearing their very best. Lupin had grown older, his hair was greying, and he had a tired air about him, as though he hadn't slept in days, dark rings under his eyes – Severus registered briefly that last night had been the night of the full moon. Lupin was unhealthily thin, that much was evident even with the roomy robes that hung loosely round his frame. It was probably his condition taking its toll. But Severus could not care about such details now, when he finally had proof that Albus had gone mad.
	Lockhart had merely been a desperate choice, there had been no one else who would have wanted to subject themselves to what was obviously a curse that ejected every DADA professor after a year of teaching, with more or less grave consequences. But employing a werewolf as DADA teacher, a werewolf, on top of everything, who had almost eaten Severus alive once, was not only questionable, it was outrageous and surely on the brink of being illegal! If the parents or the board of governors found out, Dumbledore would lose his job, no doubt. And Severus just couldn't believe that the other teachers had agreed to this, some of them having been teachers in Severus's time, like Flitwick and McGonagall, and therefore knowing full well what that man in front of them was. Had nobody objected to his employment? Had nobody been concerned about the children? Had nobody believed that this person might help Black into the castle, his old friend, possibly his accomplice? Had nobody remembered that this man had once been part of the gang that had made Severus's school days hell?
	But judging by the way they all greeted Lupin interestedly, they were either unaware of his condition or they did not care. Severus strongly suspected that Albus had not told everybody about Lupin's lycanthropy, for he could not believe that so many of his colleagues were free of prejudice or fear. True enough, Lupin did not look remotely frightening. In fact he looked positively amiable the way he smiled mildly at everybody who shook his hand. Severus could have strangled him with his bare hands right then and there.
	He did not care that it was obvious that life had not been kind to Lupin. No life could be unkind enough to atone for what he had done to Severus, no punishment would have been hard enough to erase Severus's bitterness. How dare he walk in here with that nonchalant smile and that self-confident air and snatch away Severus's job? Had he no decency? Had he no shame? Momentarily, Severus's anger about Black, Potter, and the Dementors was wiped away by a wave of loathing as Lupin's tired eyes turned on him and his smile twitched as he cocked his head to the side and his greying hair fell into his forehead. For an instant, Severus thought that something about this was unusual and he realised that Lupin had never looked at him directly at school, never met his eyes, always averted his own. But now he seemed bold, unafraid of Severus's wrath. Perhaps Albus had told him that Severus wouldn't make a scene in front of the other teachers, but that had been a big mistake.
	That was typical of Albus. He hadn't even asked Severus for his consent, knowing that he wouldn't receive it. But he couldn't do this to Severus. Severus deserved respect, he deserved to be informed of such decisions as this, he ought to be consulted like the other Heads of Houses when a werewolf was appointed to teach his students and live under the same roof as them! What was Albus playing at, summoning this man out of nowhere? Surely he just wanted to annoy Severus thoroughly, he would think it amusing. Perhaps he had merely forgotten that Lupin had almost killed Severus, had played a lethal prank on him with his good-for-nothing friends and found it unnecessary to live up to his prefect's badge and stop them tormenting Severus. In Albus's memory there was only room for his precious Gryffindor favourites, who had assured him that they felt sorry for almost killing Severus on purpose.
	Positively fuming with those thoughts, Severus strode towards Lupin and Albus, who were still standing at the door, chatting with the other teachers, and knocked a few of his colleagues out of the way as others retreated, noticing the murderous look on his face. As he drew nearer, he attracted Albus's attention and the Headmaster's eyes twinkled annoyingly as he spoke.
	"Ah, Severus! May I present you with our new Defence Against the –"
	"So this was your brilliant plan?" Severus cut across him angrily, jerking his head at Lupin. "Telling me nothing about him until it was already too late for me to object? While everybody else was informed you kept me in the dark! Do you consider this a proper way of treating one of your Heads of Houses?"
	"Do you think your objection would have made a difference, Severus?" asked Albus pleasantly, surveying him over his half-moon spectacles, and Severus was very close to jinxing him. He must look dangerous, too, since the sparse rest of his colleagues backed off now, knowing how unpleasant he could be.
	But all the while, Lupin showed no sign of intimidation or caution. Though he seemed mildly surprised, he did not move an inch but merely raised his eyebrows, glancing at Albus as his face gave away a trace of dawning comprehension and disapproval. "I take it you did not tell Severus about my appointment, Headmaster?" he said hoarsely. He sounded different, too, much older, and his calm resolution in the face of Severus's anger bore no resemblance to the boy he had once been. "I thought he had been informed. You said he had agreed to –"
	"How daft must you be to think that I would ever agree to your appointment?" snapped Severus, whose anger was only multiplied by Lupin's calmness. Lupin raised his eyebrows higher and the corners of his mouth twitched, but he did not respond. Severus thought he detected amusement in the wrinkles round Lupin's eyes and found him an impertinent dunderhead.
	ever
	your
	"Severus," Albus said in a warning tone. "Neither of you would have agreed if you had known the truth. So I – ah – warped the facts a little."
	Severus wanted to make a retort but then something popped into his mind. During the summer holidays, Albus had approached him about a new discovery made in the field of lycanthropy potions that Severus had tried to ignore stubbornly because it had been made by the show-off Damocles Belby and earned him an Order of Merlin: the Wolfsbane Potion, that rendered a werewolf harmless at the full moon when drunk during the week preceding it, having the effect of keeping the werewolf in his right mind even when in the wolf's body. Albus had asked whether Severus had heard of it, for it was quite sensational, and if he thought he could brew it, since it seemed quite a complex potion to make. Severus had, of course, shot him a venomous look and replied, "Brew it? I could improve it to ten times the quality it has now. Whatever Belby thought he was doing, presenting the world with this piece of imperfect brewery …"
	In other words, "Whatever Belby can do, I can do better!" But really, how could he have foreseen that Albus was asking him that question for such a purpose as this? Moreover, Albus obviously expected him to dedicate his precious time to the well-being of a werewolf who had not only been part of Black and Potter's bullying gang but also knowingly tried to kill him as a teenager. He could not possibly believe that Severus would take it just like that.
	"I am astounded that you did not even warn me, that you did not even ask me if I'd be willing to sacrifice my free time to –"
	"Quite frankly, Severus," interrupted Albus, his voice rising slightly to drown Severus's, "I had no interest in being badgered by you all over the summer with complaints, threats and reproaches merely because I did a Headmaster's duty and appointed a new teacher for a vacant post. I much rather wanted the two of us to enjoy a quiet summer without ill feelings. For you must believe me that, though I do value your opinion, none of your objections to this particular choice of staffing would have changed anything about my resolution to appoint Remus." He paused, smiled at Lupin, who was looking between Albus and Severus with raised eyebrows and twitching lips, apparently unsure whether to smile or not in the face of Severus's indignation. "And I would consider your extraordinary skill wasted if you didn't use them benevolently at least once in your life, my boy," added Albus when Severus took a deep breath to argue again.
	"You are making a severe mistake, Headmaster, in appointing this man," said Severus forcefully, pointing at Lupin and shooting him a look of deepest contempt that he deflected with a calm smile. "And if you think that you can force me to –"
	"Severus," Albus cut in, now applying a tone that was dangerous in its coldness. Severus fell silent at once, but glared at Lupin relentlessly. "I chose the one man that I thought best for the job. It was my decision and if I remember correctly I am the Headmaster of this school and that is why you will accept my decision and do what you are told, I think I deserve that much respect. And now enough of your complaints!"
	Severus was fuming. He hated being told off. But he did not dare say anything more on the topic. "You spoke to the other teachers, then?" he pressed and now Lupin did look a little apprehensive as he, too, looked round at Albus. Apparently he feared that Albus had "warped the facts" concerning this detail, too.
	"I spoke to the other Heads of Houses," said Albus with a nod to Professor Sprout, who was watching the scene, and Professor Flitwick, who was just passing the staffroom with the Sorting Hat, "and with the assurance that I would take full responsibility, they agreed to let him have a try. I told them and Remus that you would brew the Wolfsbane Potion for him, to the best of your ability if I know you, to keep Remus safe at the full moon. That is the sole condition Remus set for coming here and since I have full trust and confidence in you, Severus, I also have full trust and confidence in Remus's ability to teach here, as one of us. As for most of the other teachers, as well as the students, I must ask you to remember the promise you once made to keep Remus's condition a secret. Needless to mention that I would find it rather extraordinarily tactless if any of us addressed the topic in any kind of public conversation anyway."
	Severus looked from one to the other of them in stubborn silence for a few moments, taking in Albus's demanding gaze and Lupin's expectant look, then he jerked his head in defiant consent, seeing no way around it. Lupin looked relieved and smiled all the more warmly at Severus, who gave him his coldest, most scathing glare. But it had no effect whatsoever on the werewolf. Even Lupin's mere sight made Severus sick. The kindness in his eyes in the face of Severus's anger was plainly provocative. Severus was sure it was meant to be. He wondered how Albus imagined this to work.
	"Excellent, Severus! Naturally I shall provide you with all the ingredients you need and of course you will be relieved of certain other duties to make time for the brewing of Remus's Potion. I do hope that you two will be able to work alongside each other in peace," added Albus sharply and Severus gave him an incredulous look that Albus did not miss. "I do rely on you, Severus, and I hope that you will not disappoint me."
	Severus stared daggers at him for this aside. He knew that it was a warning of the Dumbledorish kind. "I shall do my best, Headmaster," Severus pressed between clenched teeth and with balled fists.
	"I never doubted that, Severus," replied Albus nodding, but though Lupin's face gave away no doubt, his eyes flickered towards the Headmaster, and Severus knew that he had not been so sure about Severus doing his best until a moment ago. In an instant, though, Lupin had covered this up and looked at Severus with gratitude quite plain and disgusting on his face.
	"Well, then I thank you very much, Severus," he said hoarsely and with a familiarity that Severus found highly inappropriate when it was so clear that contempt was radiating from him. But Lupin did have the sense not to extend his hand to shake Severus's. So he must be able to read the situation but was stubborn enough to keep up the friendly politeness.
	"I am not doing this for you," said Severus coldly, looking him straight in the eye, finding an amber colour that he had never noticed there nor seen in anybody else's eyes before. "I am merely doing my duty," he added in a snarl and now glared daggers at Lupin instead of Albus. But Lupin seemed entirely unaffected and merely raised his eyebrows again with that amused light playing around his eyes.
	"I thank you nonetheless," he said mildly, and for a moment Severus wondered if this really was the boy he had known, for he seemed so different.
	Lupin was relaxed and self-assured, he did not avert his eyes when Severus looked into them, he did not back down. But at the same time he was not offensive or aggressive, the provocation lay in his unwaveringly calm smile itself, not in his behaviour, which was friendly and quite at ease. He did not attack, he merely stood his ground come what may, or so it seemed to Severus, he was steadfast and would bend to nobody. Like a rock in the middle of a stream would not budge when water rushed towards it, no matter how wild or strong. It commanded a strange kind of respect in Severus that he could not fight. People who would not back down when he confronted them always had that effect on him. But it was not the same defiance that McGonagall sported. It was quiet and gentle, surreptitious and taciturn. One less attentive than Severus would miss it. But to him it was clearly visible in that determined smile, never changing, that was curling the werewolf's lips so mysteriously into a silent mask that was much less obvious than Severus's, much less obtrusive. And despite himself, Severus wished he could prise it off and see what lay beyond it.
	"Ah, Remus, Minerva told me about the Dementor on the train and that you fought it," said Albus pleasantly into the stretching silence and Severus noticed that he was staring at Lupin, who was gazing back quite steadily. Severus averted his eyes before he could stop himself, scowling around the room in the attempt of making it look as though he had merely been unable to bear Lupin's sight any longer. But something told him that Lupin knew he had just gained a first small victory.
	"Yes, but unfortunately Harry had already fainted, and he was quite shaken when his friends woke him," said Lupin, sounding grim for the first time. "Of course I had some chocolate on me, just in case. But the damage had been done, the children were quite shocked, and I believe you know as well as I what Harry must have felt when that wretched creature entered the compartment. It is irresponsible to let them loose on the students, Sirius Black on the run or not."
	"I quite agree," said Albus gravely and Severus looked round at them, two Gryffindors in greatest worry about the bloody Potter brat. "But I could not refuse. At least I managed to prevent them coming into the grounds. I am glad you were with the children, Remus, who knows what would have happened if you hadn't been there to help. I trust Minerva has already thanked you?"
	"Oh, yes," replied Lupin and looked both abashed and pleased, "I met her right inside the castle, just briefly. I was very pleased to see her again."
	"And she to see you, trust me," said Albus, his eyes twinkling. "She was very concerned about the safety of her students –"
	"Student," interjected Severus and they both looked at him, Lupin amused, Albus scolding.
	"Well, now that we have resolved this," said Albus with a significant look between Severus and Lupin, "I believe we could all do with a good dinner. Let us go to the Great Hall," he added loudly to the other teachers and he led the way through the doors, followed by the staff.
	But Lupin did not move, he nodded at the teachers passing him, all of whom seemed rather fond of him already, but stayed put himself, standing opposite Severus with his smile back in place. Severus stayed where he was, narrowing his eyes at Lupin, and expected him to have something more to say to him. Curiosity had got the better of him now, and when he searched the werewolf's amber eyes, he found that his mind was rather tightly closed, impossible to penetrate for Severus without the werewolf noticing. It awoke his interest. What lay hidden behind that smile, those eyes? When the last of their colleagues had left the staffroom, something odd happened to Lupin's smile. It changed quite suddenly, became so different that it startled Severus for a moment. In an instant it had changed so entirely without any real physical change to it that Severus wondered if he imagined it.
	"I hope we will get along well," said Lupin, inclining his head in an amicable way that made Severus snort.
	"Hope can be treacherous," he retorted silkily, folding his arms tightly over his chest.
	Lupin's smile widened and he shrugged. "And it never dies," said he and his voice was soft. Then he chuckled and again Severus had the impression that he was quite at ease and enjoying himself. At Severus's expense no doubt. His chuckle was quite husky and Severus wondered what it was that made the man so hoarse. Underneath the premature lines and grey hair Lupin looked young and handsome. But he appeared very tired indeed, worn, like a miner at the end of the day, a miner who had not eaten in days.
	But Severus was far from pitying him. He felt positively livid. Lupin could not possibly be labouring under the delusion that Severus could just forget what had happened between them. The fact that Lupin would almost have had to remove what remained of Severus from between his teeth was too serious to just push it aside and act as though nothing had happened. It was unimaginable that Lupin actually believed that they could "get along well". Severus would pay him back with contempt for every single second that he had to spare for brewing that highly complex Potion, which prevented the werewolf destroying his rooms. Besides, Severus didn't like the fact that there was now yet another person at Hogwarts who remembered him as a helpless, worthless boy.
	But most shocking of all was perhaps that, despite his hatred for the man, Severus could not help noticing the curve of his jaw, the unwavering smile and the twitching in the corners of his mouth, but most of all the magnificent amber colour of his eyes, twinkling much like Albus's, shining golden in the candlelight, as more than merely agreeable. He appreciated this kind of handsomeness, enhanced by the lines the past years had carved into Lupin's skin and the silver streaks it had painted into his light brown hair. It was the kind that would have caught his eye had he passed the werewolf in the street, unaware of his identity. Notwithstanding the shabbiness of his robes, the tired expression, the unhealthily thin frame, the dark rings under his eyes. Lupin was the kind of man who looked nonchalantly, effortlessly handsome even when ill. Whose smile captured Severus's eyes and would not let them go again.
	Severus wanted to make it disappear, he couldn't bear it. "Life hasn't been kind to you, has it, Lupin?" he said smoothly as Lupin made to turn away. Lupin stopped but made no reply. He seemed to be waiting for more to come. "I would have thought that you'd at least buy yourself a new set of robes for tonight."
	Lupin turned slowly round, his smile still twitching mysteriously. He met Severus's glare quite steadily with his astonishingly amber eyes. Yes, amber, indeed, not usual brown. But that was neither here nor there. Still there was something in them, some strange light that almost made Severus back off. "It means nothing to me," said Lupin, cocking his head to the side again. "It surprises me that it does to you." He said it quite calmly but Severus couldn't help feeling uneasy.
	As Lupin turned, his smile widening still, Severus thought he looked as though he wore those patched robes like ermine and purple round his shoulders and that impression did not cease when he glanced at him at the High Table, sitting rather far away from him. Even though he looked even shabbier in the Great Hall, with its gold plates and everybody in their best robes, he had an air about him like a weary king, surrounded by his noisy entourage. One could have thought he was wearing the most magnificent robes of all, for all it seemed to matter to him. Remus Lupin seemed to be looking past such sordid matters as appearance, had learnt, perhaps, that it made no difference how expensive or handsome one's clothes were if they concealed a rotten character. And maybe it was what people called "inner beauty" that enhanced his outer appearance. Severus shook his head at the thought. Ridiculous.
	Lupin looked as though he was quite happy where he was, sitting beside Flitwick, chatting with him rather animatedly. Severus found that he was insolent for showing so openly that he relished the position that should have been Severus's when it was Severus who enabled him to work at Hogwarts. Shooting loathing glances down the table at Lupin, Severus wondered how he could manage to get rid of him without actually laying hands on him. Albus would know if he did. But having to associate with Lupin for a whole year, not least of all because of the Wolfsbane, was promising to make this year an especially unpleasant one. Not even the prospect of catching Black could lighten Severus's mood. Dementors, werewolves, and murderers everywhere. It couldn't be a coincidence that Lupin turned up now of all times, when Black was on his way to Hogwarts. Albus must see this connection, he could not be so blind, this werewolf could not be trusted, Albus had seen what he was capable of even at a young age.
	After the feast, Severus returned to his rooms, frustrated and tired. He shed his robes on his way to bed and fell into the sheets with a heavy sigh. What if Lupin helped Black to kill Potter? How would Albus feel then about his decision to appoint Lupin instead of Severus? Not that Severus didn't approve of any plan that involved Potter's untimely death. He sighed again. No, this wasn't about Black or Potter, this was about the fact that Albus had appointed a man who had helped making Severus's adolescence the most unpleasant and humiliating time of his life. He felt betrayed. He would have to talk to Albus. First thing in the morning.
	He pulled the blanket over his head and closed his eyes. And thought of Lupin's face. He couldn't help it. This was something irrational that couldn't be suffocated by his dislike. It was inexplicable. There was something in those eyes and that smile, in that mild face that made Severus feel … no, impossible, he shouldn't even think about that. But it was there, no doubt, a feeling he couldn't suppress, fueled by that involuntary respect Lupin commanded. It was inappropriate and unwanted. But something about Lupin had Severus see him even when his eyes were closed. And his mere sight made his anger cease, replaced by a burning curiosity and a wish to figure him out. He had felt it before, at school. And yet he hated the man, he loathed him for it. And now he had to bear his terribly relaxed behaviour and his annoyingly mysterious smiles. There was nothing he could do about it. But as he lay there, drifting off to sleep, his last irrational thought was that he might not want Lupin to go away at all, at least not before he had unraveled the mystery behind those defiant smiles.
	
Title: Fortune's MightPairing: SS/RLDisclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.Author's Note: Thank you Chase'sGirl19 (first review!) and Emily-pino (so great that you're still around!) for the kind reviews, great to have you back :). As promised, here is chapter 2, enjoy!Lesson Two: Battle Of WillsSeverus woke early next morning and used the time before breakfast to catch Albus off guard and confront him again about Lupin. He did not want to leave him a chance to prepare for this interview, though he feared that Albus had spent the summer thinking up arguments in favour of Lupin's appointment. No matter what Severus came up with, Albus would surely be ready for it. But if Severus did not try, he would not have done whatever he could. It seemed as though his brain had sorted his own arguments overnight, providing him with a whole arsenal of well-founded objections to Lupin's appointment. Severus supposed that Albus had already been made aware of them by McGonagall and the other Heads of Houses but they were not as vicious or resolute as Severus was.It was so early that Severus only came across very few students on his way to the Headmaster's office and his shadow was so long that it stretched all across the corridor when he passed the windows, through which the rising sun was illuminating the stone in pale rose. Severus gazed out over the grounds and found a black dot that was Hagrid, already at work in the patch behind his hut. The greenhouses were glittering in the sunlight, the Forest and the lawns were quite still, no life stirring in the grounds apart from the Whomping Willow, which was swaying slightly without the need for wind as though enjoying itself. Severus remembered very vividly the night when he had descended into the tunnel that was located beneath it, sent there by Sirius Black to find his death at the jaws of the werewolf who was now teaching here. Nowadays he thought he must have been extremely curious as to Lupin's secret to do something that Black told him to do. But he had been young and Lupin had been a challenging mystery. Keeping to himself the secret he had unraveled had been more than difficult for him back then. When he thought of what Lupin's shabby robes, he believed that the secrecy had not helped him a lot. But perhaps he would look even worse if those who knew had not kept their silence about it.Severus arrived at the Headmaster's office without really noticing that he had reached the corridor. As he uttered the password ("Chocolate Frog") the gargoyle guarding the winding stairs hopped aside to let him pass. The door at the top of the stairs swung open of its own accord when Severus knocked. He entered, looking around at Albus's whirring and puffing silver instruments and the countless portraits on the circular walls that were still sleeping at this early hour. Just as well, Severus did not like their unqualified remarks when he was speaking to the Headmaster about such a very delicate matter. The sun was now properly rising over the trees of the Forbidden Forest and its light was blinding Severus as it was reflected by the glass case in which the sword of Gryffindor had been residing ever since the Boy Who Had Only Just Lived had pulled it out of the Sorting Hat in the Chamber of Secrets before the holidays."Ah, good morning, Severus," said Albus suddenly, apparently having only just realised that Severus was there, as he looked up from a few letters lying on his desk, "yes, I thought you would come to see me. Please, sit down my boy." He indicated the chair opposite him with a cordial smile, though Severus was sure Albus knew why he had come."Good morning, Headmaster," said Severus smoothly, but he remained standing beside the chair, "I wanted to speak to you again about Lupin's appointment."Albus did not answer but waved his wand, conjuring a teakettle, which started whistling at once, two cups, and a tin of tealeaves, which were ladled into the cups by a spoon soaring through the air. Albus did not believe in doing anything by hand. Especially when reading. When his blue eyes found Severus's, he gave his wand another wave and the chair beside Severus slid back a few inches. "Do have a seat, Severus," he said pleasantly, "sherbet lemon?" And he held out a tin with yellow sweets in it."No, thank you," growled Severus indignantly, folding his arms, and remained standing."Would you prefer something else?" asked Albus, rummaging around in one of the drawers of his desk. "I could offer you some rather delicious ginger newts – Minerva gave them to me just yesterday.""No, thank you," repeated Severus and narrowed his eyes at the Headmaster, "I have not come here to eat sweets or to drink tea. I wish to express my concern about your decision to appoint Lupin. I believe that you would do well to reconsider.""Really?" asked Albus, seeming entirely unconcerned and only mildly interested."Yes," replied Severus firmly, tapping his foot on the ground, "really. I cannot believe that you would simply dismiss all the reasons not to appoint him simply because you like him. He is a werewolf –""Which, if I remember correctly, is no reason not to appoint him," interrupted Albus, still rather pleasantly, "since you agreed to brew the Wolfsbane Potion, which will make him perfectly harmless … unless you do no longer feel up to the task … in which case I would order it directly from Damocles Belby and compliment him on inventing the first potion I have ever known my Potions master to be incapable of brewing.""I can brew the blasted Potion," said Severus coldly, for the only thing that made this arrangement bearable was that he had Lupin at his mercy. Never would Severus let Albus run away with the illusion that he was in any way incapable of brewing any potion. He wanted him and Lupin to know exactly that they depended on him and that they were in his debt … well, maybe not Albus, but definitely Lupin."Well, then I see no problem, do you?" asked Albus but did not wait for an answer before he poured Severus a cup of tea and pushed it over the table. "Cup of tea? And do sit down, please, Severus.""But I do see a problem," said Severus, ignoring him stubbornly. "Headmaster, what about the parents? If they find out you will be in serious trouble.""I think we agree that they will not find out, since everybody who could tell them has been sworn to secrecy, have they not, my boy?" asked Albus, a note of warning in his voice that only Severus would hear. Severus jerked his head in reluctant consent and Albus nodded, obviously satisfied that they agreed on that point. "So, no need to worry about me, though I do feel touched that you do. I am taking full responsibility and I stand by my choice. Remus Lupin is the right man for the job and his condition is no reason for us to mistrust him, in fact we have no right to judge him. You and I least of all. He is not the kind of savage werewolf you have encountered in the vicinity of Lord Voldemort. I am the Headmaster, which means that I am the one who has to consider the consequences of my actions, which I have done thoroughly as you might imagine, seeing that I am unconcerned and quite at ease. Not to worry. Drink your tea before it turns cold, Severus."Severus's face darkened and he refused to comply. "Even if you are right and Lupin is no threat –""I have no doubt that you will make sure of that, you are, after all, and extraordinary Potioneer," Albus remarked and Severus's lips twitched treacherously."Flattery is not going to help you now, Headmaster," said Severus silkily. "There is still the issue of Sirius Black. Lupin and Black are old friends, how can you be sure that Lupin won't help Black – let him into the castle for instance – to accomplish his mission of killing Harry Potter? Don't you think it highly unwise to place your trust in him and give him unhindered access to the students now of all times?"Albus gave him a warning look and Severus felt uncomfortably cowed. "I trust the man completely, Severus. I have learned from the past that trusting Sirius Black and not Remus Lupin was a mistake. I won't make it twice."But Severus did not think that distrusting someone was ever a bad idea if one wasn't sure – and one could almost never be sure – if the person was trustworthy. And it did not matter that in reality his sole aim was to get rid of Lupin, notwithstanding his trustworthiness or lack thereof. "What tells us, though, that he hasn't been Black's accomplice all along?" he pressed, on even though he saw Albus's understanding smile. "What if you were not wrong to mistrust him in the first place?""You want him to be guilty for any price, do you not, Severus?" said Albus shrewdly, putting the very tips of his fingers together and giving him that very same look that he had given him after the full moon when Lupin had almost eaten him in their fifth year. That day he had said the exact same words to him upon making him swear not to tell anyone about Lupin's condition. Severus had been just as angry, just as eager to get rid of the werewolf. Not because he was a werewolf – he would have hated him just as much if he had been just another boy – but because of what he had done to him. Albus sighed as Severus did not reply. "Why don't you let it rest, Severus, instead of wasting your energy thinking up unlikely scenarios that might make Remus look suspicious? Don't you think it is time to forget that old grudge of yours?""This has nothing to do with – I am not here because –" Severus stopped and grumbled at Albus's expectant expression. "I'm going to be the one who has to deal with him, even though you know full well that I hate him, I will have to sacrifice my time for his Potion. I only want to make sure that he doesn't open the front doors to a mad mass murderer while I am making an effort to make sure he doesn't harm anyone. Isn't it an extraordinary coincidence that Lupin turns up here now, when his old friend is on the run? I could keep an eye on him, like I did on Quirrel. Make sure that he doesn't eat –""Severus," said Albus and his voice was giving away impatient anger, "sit down!" And this time Severus complied, though grudgingly. "Listen closely now, dear boy, because I am only going to say it once: I appointed Remus Lupin because I think that he is the best man to protect Harry and the one man that I trust not to help Black. Let me finish," Albus said when Severus opened his mouth to contradict him. "Yes, he was Sirius Black's friend but you forget that he was also James and Lily's and of course Peter Pettigrew's friend and because of that I am sure he will do all he can to help us protect the Potters' son. He did not ask for this position, he was quite uneasy with the thought at first. But to him it is an obligation and an honour and he assured me he would take the task seriously. Apart from that, he's always been a good teacher, he has a gift only few of us possess," he paused to sip on his tea but Severus didn't dare speak again. "And have you never considered that I wanted Remus here because Black escaped from Azkaban? I have my very own reasons for his appointment. And you of all people should know that I never place my trust lightly. So you see, I've thought it through quite thoroughly."Severus rubbed the underside of his left forearm self-consciously, thinking that, no matter what he said now, it would bring up the topic of his own trustworthiness and the circumstances that had brought him to this school, and he had no desire to talk about that. He should have foreseen this outcome. But it had been worth a try, though it had made him feel slightly uncomfortable. He had once been the one to receive Albus's trust when nobody else would have trusted him. But maybe that was one reason why he did not want Lupin to be granted the same mercy. He jerked his head, clearing his mind of those thoughts. Then, very slowly, he took a sip of the much too sweet tea Albus had poured him and reached for the tin of sherbet lemons, taking one out and rolling it between his fingers."Very well, Headmaster," he said softly, meeting Albus's eyes, "I still don't believe that it was wise to appoint Lupin, and I cannot guarantee that I will be able to refrain from telling him so … but I shall respect your decision."Albus beamed, all anger forgotten, it seemed. "Excellent, Severus, I knew you would not disappoint me. It is not as though I was asking you to become friends after all. Have some more tea," he said and poured them both more tea."Thank you, Headmaster," said Severus quietly and popped the sherbet lemon into his mouth, thinking defiantly that he would never become friends with Lupin, even if his life depended on it. The rest of their meeting was spent mostly with light conversation and some pleasant silence until they descended to the Great Hall together to have breakfast.As they walked towards the High Table together, Albus greeted Lupin, who was already seated beside Professor Flitwick, and Lupin returned the gesture with a tired but visibly satisfied smile. Severus rolled his eyes and wished the werewolf would just go away. Albus chortled and leant in to whisper into Severus's ear. "Try not to be too rude to him," he said and Severus glared."Do not ask too much, Dumbledore," growled Severus as they sat down next to each other, "there are limits to everything."Albus just chortled on and his mood was far too good for Severus's taste. To his left, Severus caught a few snippets of Lupin's conversation with Flitwick that told him that the werewolf had already charmed at least one of his colleagues out of his wits. A professional conversation about Charms, a reminiscence of Lupin's excellent Charms OWL and NEWT, and a discussion about the Patronus Charm, all before breakfast had ended. Severus counted himself very lucky that his own subject had always been Lupin's worst. He would not have to fear a forced conversation about Potions with him. But Flitwick seemed to be thoroughly enjoying himself. And so did Professor Babbling of Ancient Runes as Severus passed her and Lupin in the corridor, conversing between classes about recent findings of ancient texts. And when Severus whisked into the staff room before lunch, he found Professor Sprout talking animatedly to the werewolf about growing magical plants in his back garden.That man was slowly infiltrating the staff and quite successfully so. Before it was even noon, Severus distinctly heard Flitwick telling Albus that Lupin was a "delightful boy", while McGonagall called him a valuable and pleasant addition to the staff, only topped off by Vector assuring Albus that Lupin's company was worthwhile and stimulating. Lockhart must have left them all with very low standards. Beside him, Lupin, with his air of modest competence, subtle sense of humour, and kind friendliness must seem quite a pleasant colleague. Severus wasn't blinded by that, though. Anger building in Severus's stomach, it came as extremely annoying news that on the first day of term, Draco Malfoy had been attacked by Hagrid's favourite hippogriff, meaning unpleasant post from his father Lucius, no doubt. Draco, of course, made a big show of it all, though his arm was not severely injured as Madam Pomfrey assured Severus over Draco's wailing.As he sat in the staffroom in the afternoon, trying to relax and let go of today's indignation, he heard McGonagall and Lupin entering the room, talking about the Gryffindor third-years' first Transfiguration class of term. They sat down close to Severus, which brought back the indignation in an instant, and he prayed for self-control as Lupin smiled at him."They were distracted all lesson," said McGonagall with some irritation in her voice, "and when they didn't applaud at my Animagus transformation, I knew that something was wrong. I mean, not that I would complain, but you've seen it, too, usually when a class sees it for the first time, they always applaud."Severus snorted and she shot him a severe look, her nostrils flaring, her mouth thinning. Lupin, sitting opposite him, did not react, but averted his eyes for a moment as though to hide his thoughts. Then he focused his attention on McGonagall again, folding his hands on the table as she went on."Then Hermione Granger told me that they had had their first Divination class and of course I knew what was wrong. Sybill had predicted another death – Sybill Trelawney, of course you haven't met her yet and, though you will not hear me speak badly of any of my colleagues," she paused to give Severus a pointed look at which he snorted again, "you would be lucky if it remained that way. She predicts a death every year, you see. It's a kind of wicked ritual of hers with which she greets her new classes."At this, Lupin chuckled lightly and his husky voice sent an involuntary shiver down Severus's spine. He retaliated with a glare that Lupin registered but only answered with a quizzically raised eyebrow and another one of those smiles. This man was more annoying than anyone Severus had ever met. And that was saying something."She did this to the teachers, too, you know, twelve years ago, when she and Severus joined the staff," said McGonagall and Severus glared at her instead, "I believe it was Severus, whose death she predicted, but, alas, as you can see, he is still in full health. I fear she only expressed her dislike for him like that, isn't that right, Severus, she always seemed less than fond of you.""Did you just say 'alas'?" asked Severus jerkily and Lupin chuckled his husky chuckle again, causing an almost visible shiver in Severus. "Shouldn't a Deputy Headmistress be a little more diplomatic?""Diplomacy isn't part of my job description, which means that even you could become Deputy, if you cared enough to apply," retorted McGonagall and Severus challenged her to a glaring match.He had no desire to remind her of the topic of Trelawney not liking him, for the reason was private and he wasn't likely to tell those two Gryffindors about it. Trelawney remembered, of course, that Severus had once eavesdropped on her job interview with Dumbledore in the Hog's Head. Why this was so significant, she had no idea, she had merely found him rude, impertinent perhaps. Her opinion of him had never improved since.After a few moments, Lupin cleared his throat – to no effect – and interrupted their match, to be continued some other time, Severus and McGonagall agreed silently. "And whose death has she predicted this time?" he asked hoarsely, shaking his greying hair out of his amber eyes as they flitted into Severus's direction."Oh, surely you can guess, Remus, which boy in third year attracts bad luck like gold attracts Nifflers?" said McGonagall irritably, her eyes directed at the ceiling, surely maledicting Trelawney many floors above in the North Tower."Not Harry?" asked Lupin, now frowning."Of course, who else!" replied McGonagall exasperatedly. "I suppose she just couldn't resist the temptation. That boy must be like a gift from the gods to her. She was never anything short of insensitive. As though Potter wasn't troubled enough with Black on the loose and all the other things he has gone through. Predicting his death was the height of –" she made an annoyed noise in the back of her throat, then she continued in a calmer voice, "Of course I told him he had nothing to fear, so I hope he won't dwell on it.""I wouldn't mind if this time her prediction proved to be right for a change," Severus said, causing the other two to look at him disbelievingly. McGonagall's face darkened and Lupin raised his eyebrows."Don't talk such nonsense, Severus," barked McGonagall and turned back to Lupin. "Don't take him seriously, those are empty words. He likes to give Potter a hard time but he would never want him dead. Still, Severus exceeds even Sybill in terms of insensitivity.""Maybe he could just almost die," suggested Severus and McGonagall rolled her eyes. "He is good at that, isn't he? Good riddance …" he muttered under his breath. Lupin glanced at him but turned his attention back to McGonagall without commenting Severus's words. He was lucky he didn't. He knew when to shut his mouth. That would make their cooperation much easier."But how did Professor Trelawney predict Harry's death?" he asked, sounding sceptical. "Did she have a vision?""She saw the Grim in his tealeaves," sighed McGonagall wearily, "or so she says."Suddenly Lupin seemed alert. "The Grim?" he asked in some disquietude. "You mean that … that black dog?""Yes, yes," said McGonagall with a dismissive shrug, rolling her eyes, "worst omen of death, haunts churchyards, people drop dead at the sight of it … a whole load of rubbish if you ask me …" she trailed off when she noticed Lupin's concerned expression. "But surely you don't believe in such nonsense, Remus?" she asked, perplexed, and though Lupin looked rather upset, next moment his face had brightened and he shook his head."No, no, of course not," he assured her, but Severus thought that he detected a lie in the amber eyes. "I was just thinking about how shocked poor Harry must've been. If you'd excuse me now, I've lessons to prepare …" And with that he got up and left the staffroom.Severus and McGonagall exchanged surprised looks and as Severus leant back in his chair again, propping his chin up on his fist, he wondered whether he had been mistaken in Lupin. Perhaps he was not as clever as he seemed, but a superstitious fool? Did Lupin really believe what that fraud Trelawney had predicted? Or was it something else? Somehow it seemed very improbable that Lupin would believe in omens of death, he did not appear like a fool, even though he was a Gryffindor. There must be something more behind that odd behaviour.But there wasn't much time to ponder this, for Severus was approached by Hagrid about the hippogriff attack only a little while later, and had a hard time understanding the half-giant's sobbed apology between the wails of despair and misery. It was hard not to feel sorry for him. And in his first lesson, too. Draco, Severus supposed, had probably provoked the accident, but to prove it, and to warrant that the hippogriff wasn't really dangerous would be very hard. Severus assured Hagrid that he would deal with Draco's father, though he thought that there would be consequences for the hippogriff if not for Hagrid himself. At least he had not lost his job, which would most likely remain that way as long as Albus was in charge. But Severus knew Lucius Malfoy well and he was sure that he would not just let the matter rest.What a good start into the new school year, Severus thought, when he walked back to his rooms that evening. He had left dinner early to prepare his classroom for tomorrow before going to bed. He was rather tired, having got up so early to talk to Albus. For nothing. Having expected the corridors to be empty, Severus was surprised to hear hurried footsteps behind him and a hoarse voice calling his name. He turned round and was annoyed to see the blasted werewolf coming his way, slowing down upon seeing that Severus had stopped. Apparently Lupin was determined to spoil even the last quiet moments that Severus could find in this castle. He was already expecting that forced conversation on Potions and was ready to smother it immediately with a snide remark and make sure Lupin got it straight that Severus would not be susceptible to his attempts to make friends with everyone."Severus," Lupin said in his hoarse voice, slightly out of breath. He smiled his curious smile and Severus answered with a glare to make clear to him that he was not welcome. But to no effect. "The Headmaster says you need to see me because of the Potion. Adjusting ingredients and dosages to my needs it was, I think.""Did he, now?" Severus growled and Lupin nodded, raising an eyebrow. Dumbledore had to be very careful. He was just about to cross a line."I hope he wasn't mistaken?" asked Lupin politely and cocked his head to one side. "I would loathe getting on your nerves for nothing." The amused light was back in his eyes and Severus glowered at him. If he cared about Severus's nerves, he wouldn't have come at all."As a matter of fact he was quite right," Severus replied, sizing Lupin up with narrowed eyes. "You should think if the Headmaster knows the particulars of this Potion so well he would want to make it himself, seeing as you are his responsibility. But no, he delegates this unpleasant task to me, adding the responsibility as the icing on the rotten cake because he has no time to eat it himself.""I believe he considers your skill greater than his own and therefore he gladly transfers the responsibility to you," said Lupin and the delicate flattery made Severus give him an incredulous look, which he answered with an inquisitive smile. "He also told me that you would find this Potion a welcome challenge, though you are unlikely to admit it. I understand that you are still quite passionate about potion-making?""Don't try to make civilised conversation, Lupin," said Severus smoothly, "I am not interested in it. As far as I am concerned, the less we converse the more bearable this arrangement will be for the both of us.""I am sorry to be causing you such an inconvenience, Severus," said Lupin and the corners of his mouth twitched again. He didn't look sorry at all. "Unfortunately we have no choice but to live with it for now. I will do my best to find a way to repay you for your efforts.""I would have several suggestions," muttered Severus but Lupin didn't seem to have heard, since he merely kept smiling. "Fine, then, follow me, so we can get this over with and relieve ourselves of each other's presence.""I don't mind your presence, Severus," said Lupin frankly and Severus glanced at him in awkward surprise that made him scowl."But I do yours," he snapped and set off down the corridor, causing Lupin to follow.When they had arrived at Severus's office, Severus held the door open for Lupin and stepped inside after him, closing it behind them. He lit the torches and sat down behind his desk, taking out quill, ink, and parchment to note down Lupin's information. He didn't offer Lupin a chair, so the werewolf remained standing in front of him, looking round at the shelves in sincere curiosity. Severus looked at the list of ingredients and the sheet with instructions Albus had provided."Weight?" he asked harshly and Lupin snapped out of his contemplation of a frog suspended in purple potion. He looked slightly bewildered for a moment, then raised an unconscious hand and ran it down the front of his robes."About eight stone, I think," he said absently and as he resumed considering the jars he coughed.Severus looked closely at him and wondered if those robes really concealed such a thin frame. It was impossible to judge. But it did not matter, it was no concern of Severus's. Lupin would be able to eat three square meals a day at Hogwarts, so why even think about it. But as Severus jotted down the weight, his mind held on to it rather tightly. For a moment, he was quite preoccupied and he forgot what he had to ask next, so he checked the instructions."Height?" he asked then and looked back up at Lupin to find him leaning a little to the side to consider a rat brain in green potion. He seemed interested, but apparently didn't want to walk around lest Severus didn't approve. Well, Severus would surely not give him permission to move, it was far too satisfying to see him crane his neck with considerable difficulty."Five foot, ten inches," he said just as absently as before and his eyes drifted upwards to fasten on a slug in red potion. "Though sometimes I lie and make myself a little taller," he added with a grin and Severus gave him a look that he didn't notice."Age, thirty-three," muttered Severus, writing it down. "Do you have any allergies or other afflictions I should know of?""No, other than being a werewolf I am quite all right, thank you," said Lupin pleasantly and looked round at Severus, who shook his head at him and wrote it down."How long have you been suffering from said affliction?" Severus asked, reading out the question from the instructions."Twenty-eight long years," said Lupin and his voice changed a little, became rather suffering, indeed, but only for an instant. Then Lupin smiled and chuckled huskily, triggering that same shiver in Severus. "I can assure you that one doesn't get used to it."Severus ignored him, shaking off the tingling sensation the shiver had left in its wake, and he glared down at his parchment, quite annoyed again. "That will do," he said, after double-checking the list. "Should I need anything else, I shall let you know. There is no need for you to talk to me about the Potion, I shall remember to make it and approach you with it to instruct you in the week before the full moon. Until then, I hope dearly that you will stay well away from me. That would, for now, be enough of a payback."Lupin chuckled once more and Severus cursed him inwardly for the huskiness of it and the awfully unwelcome effect it had on him. The werewolf did not reply, though, which Severus took as something like a "you wish", annoying him even more as he realised that Lupin would probably try to establish a good working relationship with him. Lupin did not seem to notice or care, but nodded at a few of the rather more nasty jars to his right. "There won't be any of that in the Potion, will there?" he asked in worried amusement.Severus raised an eyebrow. He tried to ignore his offended irritation at Lupin's apparent disgust, so different from the interest he had shown earlier. Usually it didn't matter to him when people did not appreciate the singular objects he had collected over the years. Not many people understood this fascination. But at first Lupin had seemed sincerely intrigued when he had looked at them. Now Severus just wanted him to leave again. "Would you refuse to drink it if it were so?" Severus asked after a few moments, hoping the answer would be yes. But no such luck."Oh, I would drink it, but …" Lupin said slowly, rubbing his neck, "they seem quite valuable. Wasted on me, I daresay. And, to be quite frank with you, I could never appreciate rat brains as useful ingredients, I always have to think of their tails in the Pepper-Up Potions in winter. It doesn't help it go down. I can live with beetles and leeches, even slugs … but brains make me uncomfortable. And rats … I'm sure their magical values are significant, though."He chuckled apologetically and Severus was taken aback by the swooping sensation it incited in his stomach. He glared at Lupin for doing this to him and got to his feet to throw him out. He opened the door and Lupin turned. "Never fear, no rat brains in your Potion," said Severus coldly, making Lupin smile gratefully. "And now leave, you are wasting my time.""All right, I'm already on my way," smiled Lupin and passed Severus out into the corridor. "Thank you again for the time you invest in this, I do appreciate it. I wish you a good night."Severus jerked his head in dismissal and watched Lupin walk slowly up the corridor, humming softly to himself. "Don't let the Grim catch you," Severus called after him and smirked as Lupin flinched.Then he slammed the door and locked it to keep out more unwanted visitors, turned to his store cupboard and tried to remember what he had wanted to do when he had left dinner. But it was as though there was an impenetrable veil of thoughts revolving around Lupin, hiding from his mind's eye the important work he had meant to undertake. Staring at the ingredients did not help, for it merely reminded Severus of the way Lupin's amber eyes had scrutinised the objects in the glass jars surrounding him, suspended in multicoloured potions, reflecting the werewolf's face as though they mirrored all the different facets of his annoying personality. That husky chuckle still seemed to be reverberating from them, or maybe just inside Severus's body, which appeared to have absorbed and multiplied it to reproduce the unpleasantly pleasant shiver it had caused several times today.Closing the cupboard, Severus heaved an exasperated sigh and tried to clear his mind, but it would not quite obey him. Keeping an eye on Lupin suddenly didn't seem all too unpleasant a task anymore. It promised to help him find out what lay behind that smile that Lupin always gave him, or rather the different smiles. The one that seemed habitual, like a mask, hid from Severus's eyes something that made him indecently curious. Was it the betrayal Severus thought – or hoped – he would commit? Was it defiance, as he had believed yesterday? Or was it something completely other? And what did it mean when Lupin's smile twitched, giving Severus the impression of some real emotion? It was strange enough that Lupin smiled at him like that when anybody else would give him nothing short of a death glare. That Lupin stayed in his presence when anybody would gladly seize the first chance to take their leave. He wanted to make conversation even though Severus told him straight out he had no interest in it. And all smiling staunchly. It had some unyielding quality. It was quite intriguing.But Severus did not want the werewolf to be intriguing. He did not want him to be noticeably handsome, or attractive in any other way. Though a part of him admitted grudgingly that he had been pleased to find somebody sincerely interested in his rare ingredients, he did not want it to be Lupin of all people. He did not want his treacherous body to shiver when Lupin laughed his husky laugh. But all of this added up to a mystery, quite as obscure and tempting as Lupin's many illnesses and his secretive air had been at school. And Severus, who wanted to look to the bottom of things always, could not quite seem to resist it. The loathing he felt for Lupin was dimmed somewhat by this new feeling, yet he still muttered maledictions as he entered his rooms, cursing Lupin for forcing his way not only into Severus's life but also into his mind. He should not want to keep an eye on the werewolf, but just like he had at school, he felt a strong urge to do so.In the complete, dark silence of his bedroom, the chuckle that his body had captured resounded in his mind like the echo of a canon blast. Now that man even followed him to bed. Severus glowered into the darkness. He should hate Lupin with every ounce of his body, like he had until yesterday, he should not waste precious hateful ounces on other sensations. That man was treading on delicate ground. Severus wanted him gone. Needed him gone. And he would do his best to make him leave.

	Title: Fortune's Might
	Title:
	 Fortune's Might
	Pairing: SS/RL
	Pairing:
	Disclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.
	Disclaimer
	Author's Note: Thank you Chase'sGirl19 (first review!) and Emily-pino (so great that you're still around!) for the kind reviews, great to have you back :). As promised, here is chapter 2, enjoy!
	Author's Note
	
	Lesson Two: Battle Of Wills
	Lesson Two: Battle Of Wills
	Severus woke early next morning and used the time before breakfast to catch Albus off guard and confront him again about Lupin. He did not want to leave him a chance to prepare for this interview, though he feared that Albus had spent the summer thinking up arguments in favour of Lupin's appointment. No matter what Severus came up with, Albus would surely be ready for it. But if Severus did not try, he would not have done whatever he could. It seemed as though his brain had sorted his own arguments overnight, providing him with a whole arsenal of well-founded objections to Lupin's appointment. Severus supposed that Albus had already been made aware of them by McGonagall and the other Heads of Houses but they were not as vicious or resolute as Severus was.
	It was so early that Severus only came across very few students on his way to the Headmaster's office and his shadow was so long that it stretched all across the corridor when he passed the windows, through which the rising sun was illuminating the stone in pale rose. Severus gazed out over the grounds and found a black dot that was Hagrid, already at work in the patch behind his hut. The greenhouses were glittering in the sunlight, the Forest and the lawns were quite still, no life stirring in the grounds apart from the Whomping Willow, which was swaying slightly without the need for wind as though enjoying itself. Severus remembered very vividly the night when he had descended into the tunnel that was located beneath it, sent there by Sirius Black to find his death at the jaws of the werewolf who was now teaching here. Nowadays he thought he must have been extremely curious as to Lupin's secret to do something that Black told him to do. But he had been young and Lupin had been a challenging mystery. Keeping to himself the secret he had unraveled had been more than difficult for him back then. When he thought of what Lupin's shabby robes, he believed that the secrecy had not helped him a lot. But perhaps he would look even worse if those who knew had not kept their silence about it.
	Severus arrived at the Headmaster's office without really noticing that he had reached the corridor. As he uttered the password ("Chocolate Frog") the gargoyle guarding the winding stairs hopped aside to let him pass. The door at the top of the stairs swung open of its own accord when Severus knocked. He entered, looking around at Albus's whirring and puffing silver instruments and the countless portraits on the circular walls that were still sleeping at this early hour. Just as well, Severus did not like their unqualified remarks when he was speaking to the Headmaster about such a very delicate matter. The sun was now properly rising over the trees of the Forbidden Forest and its light was blinding Severus as it was reflected by the glass case in which the sword of Gryffindor had been residing ever since the Boy Who Had Only Just Lived had pulled it out of the Sorting Hat in the Chamber of Secrets before the holidays.
	"Ah, good morning, Severus," said Albus suddenly, apparently having only just realised that Severus was there, as he looked up from a few letters lying on his desk, "yes, I thought you would come to see me. Please, sit down my boy." He indicated the chair opposite him with a cordial smile, though Severus was sure Albus knew why he had come.
	"Good morning, Headmaster," said Severus smoothly, but he remained standing beside the chair, "I wanted to speak to you again about Lupin's appointment."
	Albus did not answer but waved his wand, conjuring a teakettle, which started whistling at once, two cups, and a tin of tealeaves, which were ladled into the cups by a spoon soaring through the air. Albus did not believe in doing anything by hand. Especially when reading. When his blue eyes found Severus's, he gave his wand another wave and the chair beside Severus slid back a few inches. "Do have a seat, Severus," he said pleasantly, "sherbet lemon?" And he held out a tin with yellow sweets in it.
	"No, thank you," growled Severus indignantly, folding his arms, and remained standing.
	"Would you prefer something else?" asked Albus, rummaging around in one of the drawers of his desk. "I could offer you some rather delicious ginger newts – Minerva gave them to me just yesterday."
	"No, thank you," repeated Severus and narrowed his eyes at the Headmaster, "I have not come here to eat sweets or to drink tea. I wish to express my concern about your decision to appoint Lupin. I believe that you would do well to reconsider."
	No, thank you
	"Really?" asked Albus, seeming entirely unconcerned and only mildly interested.
	"Yes," replied Severus firmly, tapping his foot on the ground, "really. I cannot believe that you would simply dismiss all the reasons not to appoint him simply because you like him. He is a werewolf –"
	"Which, if I remember correctly, is no reason not to appoint him," interrupted Albus, still rather pleasantly, "since you agreed to brew the Wolfsbane Potion, which will make him perfectly harmless … unless you do no longer feel up to the task … in which case I would order it directly from Damocles Belby and compliment him on inventing the first potion I have ever known my Potions master to be incapable of brewing."
	"I can brew the blasted Potion," said Severus coldly, for the only thing that made this arrangement bearable was that he had Lupin at his mercy. Never would Severus let Albus run away with the illusion that he was in any way incapable of brewing any potion. He wanted him and Lupin to know exactly that they depended on him and that they were in his debt … well, maybe not Albus, but definitely Lupin.
	can
	"Well, then I see no problem, do you?" asked Albus but did not wait for an answer before he poured Severus a cup of tea and pushed it over the table. "Cup of tea? And do sit down, please, Severus."
	"But I do see a problem," said Severus, ignoring him stubbornly. "Headmaster, what about the parents? If they find out you will be in serious trouble."
	"I think we agree that they will not find out, since everybody who could tell them has been sworn to secrecy, have they not, my boy?" asked Albus, a note of warning in his voice that only Severus would hear. Severus jerked his head in reluctant consent and Albus nodded, obviously satisfied that they agreed on that point. "So, no need to worry about me, though I do feel touched that you do. I am taking full responsibility and I stand by my choice. Remus Lupin is the right man for the job and his condition is no reason for us to mistrust him, in fact we have no right to judge him. You and I least of all. He is not the kind of savage werewolf you have encountered in the vicinity of Lord Voldemort. I am the Headmaster, which means that I am the one who has to consider the consequences of my actions, which I have done thoroughly as you might imagine, seeing that I am unconcerned and quite at ease. Not to worry. Drink your tea before it turns cold, Severus."
	Severus's face darkened and he refused to comply. "Even if you are right and Lupin is no threat –"
	"I have no doubt that you will make sure of that, you are, after all, and extraordinary Potioneer," Albus remarked and Severus's lips twitched treacherously.
	"Flattery is not going to help you now, Headmaster," said Severus silkily. "There is still the issue of Sirius Black. Lupin and Black are old friends, how can you be sure that Lupin won't help Black – let him into the castle for instance – to accomplish his mission of killing Harry Potter? Don't you think it highly unwise to place your trust in him and give him unhindered access to the students now of all times?"
	Albus gave him a warning look and Severus felt uncomfortably cowed. "I trust the man completely, Severus. I have learned from the past that trusting Sirius Black and not Remus Lupin was a mistake. I won't make it twice."
	But Severus did not think that distrusting someone was ever a bad idea if one wasn't sure – and one could almost never be sure – if the person was trustworthy. And it did not matter that in reality his sole aim was to get rid of Lupin, notwithstanding his trustworthiness or lack thereof. "What tells us, though, that he hasn't been Black's accomplice all along?" he pressed, on even though he saw Albus's understanding smile. "What if you were not wrong to mistrust him in the first place?"
	not
	"You want him to be guilty for any price, do you not, Severus?" said Albus shrewdly, putting the very tips of his fingers together and giving him that very same look that he had given him after the full moon when Lupin had almost eaten him in their fifth year. That day he had said the exact same words to him upon making him swear not to tell anyone about Lupin's condition. Severus had been just as angry, just as eager to get rid of the werewolf. Not because he was a werewolf – he would have hated him just as much if he had been just another boy – but because of what he had done to him. Albus sighed as Severus did not reply. "Why don't you let it rest, Severus, instead of wasting your energy thinking up unlikely scenarios that might make Remus look suspicious? Don't you think it is time to forget that old grudge of yours?"
	"This has nothing to do with – I am not here because –" Severus stopped and grumbled at Albus's expectant expression. "I'm going to be the one who has to deal with him, even though you know full well that I hate him, I will have to sacrifice my time for his Potion. I only want to make sure that he doesn't open the front doors to a mad mass murderer while I am making an effort to make sure he doesn't harm anyone. Isn't it an extraordinary coincidence that Lupin turns up here now, when his old friend is on the run? I could keep an eye on him, like I did on Quirrel. Make sure that he doesn't eat –"
	"Severus," said Albus and his voice was giving away impatient anger, "sit down!" And this time Severus complied, though grudgingly. "Listen closely now, dear boy, because I am only going to say it once: I appointed Remus Lupin because I think that he is the best man to protect Harry and the one man that I trust not to help Black. Let me finish," Albus said when Severus opened his mouth to contradict him. "Yes, he was Sirius Black's friend but you forget that he was also James and Lily's and of course Peter Pettigrew's friend and because of that I am sure he will do all he can to help us protect the Potters' son. He did not ask for this position, he was quite uneasy with the thought at first. But to him it is an obligation and an honour and he assured me he would take the task seriously. Apart from that, he's always been a good teacher, he has a gift only few of us possess," he paused to sip on his tea but Severus didn't dare speak again. "And have you never considered that I wanted Remus here because Black escaped from Azkaban? I have my very own reasons for his appointment. And you of all people should know that I never place my trust lightly. So you see, I've thought it through quite thoroughly."
	Severus
	because
	Severus rubbed the underside of his left forearm self-consciously, thinking that, no matter what he said now, it would bring up the topic of his own trustworthiness and the circumstances that had brought him to this school, and he had no desire to talk about that. He should have foreseen this outcome. But it had been worth a try, though it had made him feel slightly uncomfortable. He had once been the one to receive Albus's trust when nobody else would have trusted him. But maybe that was one reason why he did not want Lupin to be granted the same mercy. He jerked his head, clearing his mind of those thoughts. Then, very slowly, he took a sip of the much too sweet tea Albus had poured him and reached for the tin of sherbet lemons, taking one out and rolling it between his fingers.
	"Very well, Headmaster," he said softly, meeting Albus's eyes, "I still don't believe that it was wise to appoint Lupin, and I cannot guarantee that I will be able to refrain from telling him so … but I shall respect your decision."
	Albus beamed, all anger forgotten, it seemed. "Excellent, Severus, I knew you would not disappoint me. It is not as though I was asking you to become friends after all. Have some more tea," he said and poured them both more tea.
	"Thank you, Headmaster," said Severus quietly and popped the sherbet lemon into his mouth, thinking defiantly that he would never become friends with Lupin, even if his life depended on it. The rest of their meeting was spent mostly with light conversation and some pleasant silence until they descended to the Great Hall together to have breakfast.
	Lupin
	As they walked towards the High Table together, Albus greeted Lupin, who was already seated beside Professor Flitwick, and Lupin returned the gesture with a tired but visibly satisfied smile. Severus rolled his eyes and wished the werewolf would just go away. Albus chortled and leant in to whisper into Severus's ear. "Try not to be too rude to him," he said and Severus glared.
	"Do not ask too much, Dumbledore," growled Severus as they sat down next to each other, "there are limits to everything."
	Albus just chortled on and his mood was far too good for Severus's taste. To his left, Severus caught a few snippets of Lupin's conversation with Flitwick that told him that the werewolf had already charmed at least one of his colleagues out of his wits. A professional conversation about Charms, a reminiscence of Lupin's excellent Charms OWL and NEWT, and a discussion about the Patronus Charm, all before breakfast had ended. Severus counted himself very lucky that his own subject had always been Lupin's worst. He would not have to fear a forced conversation about Potions with him. But Flitwick seemed to be thoroughly enjoying himself. And so did Professor Babbling of Ancient Runes as Severus passed her and Lupin in the corridor, conversing between classes about recent findings of ancient texts. And when Severus whisked into the staff room before lunch, he found Professor Sprout talking animatedly to the werewolf about growing magical plants in his back garden.
	That man was slowly infiltrating the staff and quite successfully so. Before it was even noon, Severus distinctly heard Flitwick telling Albus that Lupin was a "delightful boy", while McGonagall called him a valuable and pleasant addition to the staff, only topped off by Vector assuring Albus that Lupin's company was worthwhile and stimulating. Lockhart must have left them all with very low standards. Beside him, Lupin, with his air of modest competence, subtle sense of humour, and kind friendliness must seem quite a pleasant colleague. Severus wasn't blinded by that, though. Anger building in Severus's stomach, it came as extremely annoying news that on the first day of term, Draco Malfoy had been attacked by Hagrid's favourite hippogriff, meaning unpleasant post from his father Lucius, no doubt. Draco, of course, made a big show of it all, though his arm was not severely injured as Madam Pomfrey assured Severus over Draco's wailing.
	As he sat in the staffroom in the afternoon, trying to relax and let go of today's indignation, he heard McGonagall and Lupin entering the room, talking about the Gryffindor third-years' first Transfiguration class of term. They sat down close to Severus, which brought back the indignation in an instant, and he prayed for self-control as Lupin smiled at him.
	"They were distracted all lesson," said McGonagall with some irritation in her voice, "and when they didn't applaud at my Animagus transformation, I knew that something was wrong. I mean, not that I would complain, but you've seen it, too, usually when a class sees it for the first time, they always applaud."
	Severus snorted and she shot him a severe look, her nostrils flaring, her mouth thinning. Lupin, sitting opposite him, did not react, but averted his eyes for a moment as though to hide his thoughts. Then he focused his attention on McGonagall again, folding his hands on the table as she went on.
	"Then Hermione Granger told me that they had had their first Divination class and of course I knew what was wrong. Sybill had predicted another death – Sybill Trelawney, of course you haven't met her yet and, though you will not hear me speak badly of any of my colleagues," she paused to give Severus a pointed look at which he snorted again, "you would be lucky if it remained that way. She predicts a death every year, you see. It's a kind of wicked ritual of hers with which she greets her new classes."
	At this, Lupin chuckled lightly and his husky voice sent an involuntary shiver down Severus's spine. He retaliated with a glare that Lupin registered but only answered with a quizzically raised eyebrow and another one of those smiles. This man was more annoying than anyone Severus had ever met. And that was saying something.
	"She did this to the teachers, too, you know, twelve years ago, when she and Severus joined the staff," said McGonagall and Severus glared at her instead, "I believe it was Severus, whose death she predicted, but, alas, as you can see, he is still in full health. I fear she only expressed her dislike for him like that, isn't that right, Severus, she always seemed less than fond of you."
	"Did you just say 'alas'?" asked Severus jerkily and Lupin chuckled his husky chuckle again, causing an almost visible shiver in Severus. "Shouldn't a Deputy Headmistress be a little more diplomatic?"
	"Diplomacy isn't part of my job description, which means that even you could become Deputy, if you cared enough to apply," retorted McGonagall and Severus challenged her to a glaring match.
	He had no desire to remind her of the topic of Trelawney not liking him, for the reason was private and he wasn't likely to tell those two Gryffindors about it. Trelawney remembered, of course, that Severus had once eavesdropped on her job interview with Dumbledore in the Hog's Head. Why this was so significant, she had no idea, she had merely found him rude, impertinent perhaps. Her opinion of him had never improved since.
	After a few moments, Lupin cleared his throat – to no effect – and interrupted their match, to be continued some other time, Severus and McGonagall agreed silently. "And whose death has she predicted this time?" he asked hoarsely, shaking his greying hair out of his amber eyes as they flitted into Severus's direction.
	"Oh, surely you can guess, Remus, which boy in third year attracts bad luck like gold attracts Nifflers?" said McGonagall irritably, her eyes directed at the ceiling, surely maledicting Trelawney many floors above in the North Tower.
	"Not Harry?" asked Lupin, now frowning.
	"Of course, who else!" replied McGonagall exasperatedly. "I suppose she just couldn't resist the temptation. That boy must be like a gift from the gods to her. She was never anything short of insensitive. As though Potter wasn't troubled enough with Black on the loose and all the other things he has gone through. Predicting his death was the height of –" she made an annoyed noise in the back of her throat, then she continued in a calmer voice, "Of course I told him he had nothing to fear, so I hope he won't dwell on it."
	"I wouldn't mind if this time her prediction proved to be right for a change," Severus said, causing the other two to look at him disbelievingly. McGonagall's face darkened and Lupin raised his eyebrows.
	"Don't talk such nonsense, Severus," barked McGonagall and turned back to Lupin. "Don't take him seriously, those are empty words. He likes to give Potter a hard time but he would never want him dead. Still, Severus exceeds even Sybill in terms of insensitivity."
	"Maybe he could just almost die," suggested Severus and McGonagall rolled her eyes. "He is good at that, isn't he? Good riddance …" he muttered under his breath. Lupin glanced at him but turned his attention back to McGonagall without commenting Severus's words. He was lucky he didn't. He knew when to shut his mouth. That would make their cooperation much easier.
	"But how did Professor Trelawney predict Harry's death?" he asked, sounding sceptical. "Did she have a vision?"
	"She saw the Grim in his tealeaves," sighed McGonagall wearily, "or so she says."
	Suddenly Lupin seemed alert. "The Grim?" he asked in some disquietude. "You mean that … that black dog?"
	"Yes, yes," said McGonagall with a dismissive shrug, rolling her eyes, "worst omen of death, haunts churchyards, people drop dead at the sight of it … a whole load of rubbish if you ask me …" she trailed off when she noticed Lupin's concerned expression. "But surely you don't believe in such nonsense, Remus?" she asked, perplexed, and though Lupin looked rather upset, next moment his face had brightened and he shook his head.
	"No, no, of course not," he assured her, but Severus thought that he detected a lie in the amber eyes. "I was just thinking about how shocked poor Harry must've been. If you'd excuse me now, I've lessons to prepare …" And with that he got up and left the staffroom.
	Severus and McGonagall exchanged surprised looks and as Severus leant back in his chair again, propping his chin up on his fist, he wondered whether he had been mistaken in Lupin. Perhaps he was not as clever as he seemed, but a superstitious fool? Did Lupin really believe what that fraud Trelawney had predicted? Or was it something else? Somehow it seemed very improbable that Lupin would believe in omens of death, he did not appear like a fool, even though he was a Gryffindor. There must be something more behind that odd behaviour.
	But there wasn't much time to ponder this, for Severus was approached by Hagrid about the hippogriff attack only a little while later, and had a hard time understanding the half-giant's sobbed apology between the wails of despair and misery. It was hard not to feel sorry for him. And in his first lesson, too. Draco, Severus supposed, had probably provoked the accident, but to prove it, and to warrant that the hippogriff wasn't really dangerous would be very hard. Severus assured Hagrid that he would deal with Draco's father, though he thought that there would be consequences for the hippogriff if not for Hagrid himself. At least he had not lost his job, which would most likely remain that way as long as Albus was in charge. But Severus knew Lucius Malfoy well and he was sure that he would not just let the matter rest.
	What a good start into the new school year, Severus thought, when he walked back to his rooms that evening. He had left dinner early to prepare his classroom for tomorrow before going to bed. He was rather tired, having got up so early to talk to Albus. For nothing. Having expected the corridors to be empty, Severus was surprised to hear hurried footsteps behind him and a hoarse voice calling his name. He turned round and was annoyed to see the blasted werewolf coming his way, slowing down upon seeing that Severus had stopped. Apparently Lupin was determined to spoil even the last quiet moments that Severus could find in this castle. He was already expecting that forced conversation on Potions and was ready to smother it immediately with a snide remark and make sure Lupin got it straight that Severus would not be susceptible to his attempts to make friends with everyone.
	"Severus," Lupin said in his hoarse voice, slightly out of breath. He smiled his curious smile and Severus answered with a glare to make clear to him that he was not welcome. But to no effect. "The Headmaster says you need to see me because of the Potion. Adjusting ingredients and dosages to my needs it was, I think."
	"Did he, now?" Severus growled and Lupin nodded, raising an eyebrow. Dumbledore had to be very careful. He was just about to cross a line.
	"I hope he wasn't mistaken?" asked Lupin politely and cocked his head to one side. "I would loathe getting on your nerves for nothing." The amused light was back in his eyes and Severus glowered at him. If he cared about Severus's nerves, he wouldn't have come at all.
	"As a matter of fact he was quite right," Severus replied, sizing Lupin up with narrowed eyes. "You should think if the Headmaster knows the particulars of this Potion so well he would want to make it himself, seeing as you are his responsibility. But no, he delegates this unpleasant task to me, adding the responsibility as the icing on the rotten cake because he has no time to eat it himself."
	his
	"I believe he considers your skill greater than his own and therefore he gladly transfers the responsibility to you," said Lupin and the delicate flattery made Severus give him an incredulous look, which he answered with an inquisitive smile. "He also told me that you would find this Potion a welcome challenge, though you are unlikely to admit it. I understand that you are still quite passionate about potion-making?"
	"Don't try to make civilised conversation, Lupin," said Severus smoothly, "I am not interested in it. As far as I am concerned, the less we converse the more bearable this arrangement will be for the both of us."
	"I am sorry to be causing you such an inconvenience, Severus," said Lupin and the corners of his mouth twitched again. He didn't look sorry at all. "Unfortunately we have no choice but to live with it for now. I will do my best to find a way to repay you for your efforts."
	"I would have several suggestions," muttered Severus but Lupin didn't seem to have heard, since he merely kept smiling. "Fine, then, follow me, so we can get this over with and relieve ourselves of each other's presence."
	"I don't mind your presence, Severus," said Lupin frankly and Severus glanced at him in awkward surprise that made him scowl.
	"But I do yours," he snapped and set off down the corridor, causing Lupin to follow.
	When they had arrived at Severus's office, Severus held the door open for Lupin and stepped inside after him, closing it behind them. He lit the torches and sat down behind his desk, taking out quill, ink, and parchment to note down Lupin's information. He didn't offer Lupin a chair, so the werewolf remained standing in front of him, looking round at the shelves in sincere curiosity. Severus looked at the list of ingredients and the sheet with instructions Albus had provided.
	"Weight?" he asked harshly and Lupin snapped out of his contemplation of a frog suspended in purple potion. He looked slightly bewildered for a moment, then raised an unconscious hand and ran it down the front of his robes.
	"About eight stone, I think," he said absently and as he resumed considering the jars he coughed.
	Severus looked closely at him and wondered if those robes really concealed such a thin frame. It was impossible to judge. But it did not matter, it was no concern of Severus's. Lupin would be able to eat three square meals a day at Hogwarts, so why even think about it. But as Severus jotted down the weight, his mind held on to it rather tightly. For a moment, he was quite preoccupied and he forgot what he had to ask next, so he checked the instructions.
	"Height?" he asked then and looked back up at Lupin to find him leaning a little to the side to consider a rat brain in green potion. He seemed interested, but apparently didn't want to walk around lest Severus didn't approve. Well, Severus would surely not give him permission to move, it was far too satisfying to see him crane his neck with considerable difficulty.
	"Five foot, ten inches," he said just as absently as before and his eyes drifted upwards to fasten on a slug in red potion. "Though sometimes I lie and make myself a little taller," he added with a grin and Severus gave him a look that he didn't notice.
	"Age, thirty-three," muttered Severus, writing it down. "Do you have any allergies or other afflictions I should know of?"
	"No, other than being a werewolf I am quite all right, thank you," said Lupin pleasantly and looked round at Severus, who shook his head at him and wrote it down.
	"How long have you been suffering from said affliction?" Severus asked, reading out the question from the instructions.
	"Twenty-eight long years," said Lupin and his voice changed a little, became rather suffering, indeed, but only for an instant. Then Lupin smiled and chuckled huskily, triggering that same shiver in Severus. "I can assure you that one doesn't get used to it."
	Severus ignored him, shaking off the tingling sensation the shiver had left in its wake, and he glared down at his parchment, quite annoyed again. "That will do," he said, after double-checking the list. "Should I need anything else, I shall let you know. There is no need for you to talk to me about the Potion, I shall remember to make it and approach you with it to instruct you in the week before the full moon. Until then, I hope dearly that you will stay well away from me. That would, for now, be enough of a payback."
	Lupin chuckled once more and Severus cursed him inwardly for the huskiness of it and the awfully unwelcome effect it had on him. The werewolf did not reply, though, which Severus took as something like a "you wish", annoying him even more as he realised that Lupin would probably try to establish a good working relationship with him. Lupin did not seem to notice or care, but nodded at a few of the rather more nasty jars to his right. "There won't be any of that in the Potion, will there?" he asked in worried amusement.
	Severus raised an eyebrow. He tried to ignore his offended irritation at Lupin's apparent disgust, so different from the interest he had shown earlier. Usually it didn't matter to him when people did not appreciate the singular objects he had collected over the years. Not many people understood this fascination. But at first Lupin had seemed sincerely intrigued when he had looked at them. Now Severus just wanted him to leave again. "Would you refuse to drink it if it were so?" Severus asked after a few moments, hoping the answer would be yes. But no such luck.
	"Oh, I would drink it, but …" Lupin said slowly, rubbing his neck, "they seem quite valuable. Wasted on me, I daresay. And, to be quite frank with you, I could never appreciate rat brains as useful ingredients, I always have to think of their tails in the Pepper-Up Potions in winter. It doesn't help it go down. I can live with beetles and leeches, even slugs … but brains make me uncomfortable. And rats … I'm sure their magical values are significant, though."
	He chuckled apologetically and Severus was taken aback by the swooping sensation it incited in his stomach. He glared at Lupin for doing this to him and got to his feet to throw him out. He opened the door and Lupin turned. "Never fear, no rat brains in your Potion," said Severus coldly, making Lupin smile gratefully. "And now leave, you are wasting my time."
	"All right, I'm already on my way," smiled Lupin and passed Severus out into the corridor. "Thank you again for the time you invest in this, I do appreciate it. I wish you a good night."
	Severus jerked his head in dismissal and watched Lupin walk slowly up the corridor, humming softly to himself. "Don't let the Grim catch you," Severus called after him and smirked as Lupin flinched.
	Then he slammed the door and locked it to keep out more unwanted visitors, turned to his store cupboard and tried to remember what he had wanted to do when he had left dinner. But it was as though there was an impenetrable veil of thoughts revolving around Lupin, hiding from his mind's eye the important work he had meant to undertake. Staring at the ingredients did not help, for it merely reminded Severus of the way Lupin's amber eyes had scrutinised the objects in the glass jars surrounding him, suspended in multicoloured potions, reflecting the werewolf's face as though they mirrored all the different facets of his annoying personality. That husky chuckle still seemed to be reverberating from them, or maybe just inside Severus's body, which appeared to have absorbed and multiplied it to reproduce the unpleasantly pleasant shiver it had caused several times today.
	Closing the cupboard, Severus heaved an exasperated sigh and tried to clear his mind, but it would not quite obey him. Keeping an eye on Lupin suddenly didn't seem all too unpleasant a task anymore. It promised to help him find out what lay behind that smile that Lupin always gave him, or rather the different smiles. The one that seemed habitual, like a mask, hid from Severus's eyes something that made him indecently curious. Was it the betrayal Severus thought – or hoped – he would commit? Was it defiance, as he had believed yesterday? Or was it something completely other? And what did it mean when Lupin's smile twitched, giving Severus the impression of some real emotion? It was strange enough that Lupin smiled at him like that when anybody else would give him nothing short of a death glare. That Lupin stayed in his presence when anybody would gladly seize the first chance to take their leave. He wanted to make conversation even though Severus told him straight out he had no interest in it. And all smiling staunchly. It had some unyielding quality. It was quite intriguing.
	But Severus did not want the werewolf to be intriguing. He did not want him to be noticeably handsome, or attractive in any other way. Though a part of him admitted grudgingly that he had been pleased to find somebody sincerely interested in his rare ingredients, he did not want it to be Lupin of all people. He did not want his treacherous body to shiver when Lupin laughed his husky laugh. But all of this added up to a mystery, quite as obscure and tempting as Lupin's many illnesses and his secretive air had been at school. And Severus, who wanted to look to the bottom of things always, could not quite seem to resist it. The loathing he felt for Lupin was dimmed somewhat by this new feeling, yet he still muttered maledictions as he entered his rooms, cursing Lupin for forcing his way not only into Severus's life but also into his mind. He should not want to keep an eye on the werewolf, but just like he had at school, he felt a strong urge to do so.
	In the complete, dark silence of his bedroom, the chuckle that his body had captured resounded in his mind like the echo of a canon blast. Now that man even followed him to bed. Severus glowered into the darkness. He should hate Lupin with every ounce of his body, like he had until yesterday, he should not waste precious hateful ounces on other sensations. That man was treading on delicate ground. Severus wanted him gone. Needed him gone. And he would do his best to make him leave.
	
Title: Fortune's MightPairing: SS/RLDisclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.Author's Note: Suzululu4moe, as soon as somebody says "poor Severus" I know I've done something right. Yeah, Emily-pino, I'm trying to keep the development of this story more natural than it used to be, glad you noticed and thanks for the compliment! Don't worry, Chase'sGirl19, I'm not gonna delete the old stories, but I'm happy you like the new one!Lesson Three: AllureWhen Severus woke next morning, he was drowsier than usual and much less inclined to get up. Sitting up rather reluctantly as he heard students moving above, he rubbed his eyes to chase away the persistent dreams that clung to him like spoilt potions. Lupin's chuckle still hadn't departed from his ears and Severus found him more and more insufferable as he got out of bed and trudged into the bathroom. He hated laughter, he wouldn't have it around him, he hated it when people laughed at him. He hated how Lupin's presence brought back unpleasant memories including malicious laughter, memories he had tried to bury as deeply as possible.He didn't want to remember, but now every time he saw Lupin's face, he would. He looked at his own angry face in the mirror, glaring, and wondered how this could have no effect whatsoever on Lupin. It even made Severus recoil slightly. With a snort he splashed some cold water into his face to get rid of the drowsiness and that husky chuckle ringing in his ears. Lupin had no right to laugh in his presence, should know that it reminded Severus unpleasantly of their school days. But even as that thought crossed his mind he remembered that Lupin had never laughed. Had never even looked. That was why Severus had not known his eyes to be so astonishingly amber. Lupin had never directed them at him to watch him being tormented by Sirius Black and James Potter. He had looked away. Doing nothing. He hadn't approved. But he hadn't intervened either. The anger turned into a dull ache. He could have done something. Anything. But he hadn't cared enough. Even with that prefect's badge on his chest.As Severus made his way to the Great Hall, he took cruel pleasure in the way the new first-years jumped out of his way, obviously frightened, when he passed through the crowd of students streaming to breakfast. Sweeping past the house tables, Severus hardly noticed Lupin, who was making his way rather slowly towards his seat, but Lupin noticed him and made it known at once."Good morning to you, Severus," he said hoarsely and Severus bristled immediately when Lupin caught up with him. "Unusually late today, aren't you? Personally, I tend to sleep in, I'm afraid. In future, I'll have to hurry to catch breakfast at all. But I suppose that you are usually among the first at the breakfast table, at least that's how I remember it."Severus shot him a poisonous look to make him drop it and leave him alone, but once more to no effect. Lupin smiled at him, meeting his eyes, entirely unimpressed by his glare, clearly expecting him to reply. From the High Table, Albus's blue eyes were twinkling in their direction and he looked positively delighted to see his two youngest staff members in conversation. But no sir, Severus would not let him run away with a false impression."Could we skip the small talk and return to silence?" said Severus in a low, cold voice. "I will have you know that I have not the slightest desire to chat with you about my daily habits. Or anything else, for that matter.""Ah, I see," replied Lupin but he did not sound offended, rather amused once again. "Well, enjoy your breakfast, then."As Severus met his eyes again he had the feeling that they were looking right through him, without any need for Legilimency, to the very bottom of him and it made him so uncomfortable that he averted his eyes and sped up to leave Lupin behind and sit down beside McGonagall. He felt Lupin's eyes on him for some time longer and none of his threatening looks into the werewolf's direction made a difference. It was as if Lupin just ignored all the hatred that filled Severus's every word, his every look and gesture, when directed at him. It frustrated Severus immensely. Why was it that Remus Lupin was so immune to Severus's deliberate rudeness. It affected everybody, usually, in one way or another. It incited anger, pain, or equal rudeness. But Lupin did not react in any of the usual patterns. As a boy, he had been much more affected by Severus's remarks, by his open hostility. He had been very different, indeed. What had changed?There was something about him, apart from his hair and his robes and his voice, that was different. Different from the last time they had met, before the war had ended. His smiles seemed genuine, but were they really? Severus narrowed his eyes when he saw Lupin smile at McGonagall. There was something about him that seemed forced, wasn't there? He had always been friendly and had never lost his temper at school, either, a quiet and intelligent boy that hadn't quite fitted in with the show-off team Black and Potter had formed. But he seemed stronger now. Self-confident."A Boggart? Are you sure?" Lupin said and sounded exhilarated."Yes," replied Professor Flitwick squeakily, "in the wardrobe in the staffroom. It moved in yesterday. Mr Filch was complaining about having to clear it out.""Well, I think I can help him there," said Lupin cheerfully and Severus saw him turn to Albus. "Headmaster, if you would give me permission to use the Boggart in the staffroom for my first lesson with the Gryffindor third-years, I'd be much obliged.""Naturally, Remus, a very good idea," replied Albus and Severus rolled his eyes as he buttered a crumpet rather forcefully. It was not a good idea, at least if Lupin wanted to keep his little secret. A Boggart would transform into the full moon when facing him. But what did it matter to Severus?It was Thursday, which meant that Severus's most dreaded lesson had arrived. The Gryffindor and Slytherin third-year class had always brought cold foreboding with it, for it contained Neville Longbottom, the nightmare of every serious Potions master. As though Life had wanted to make fun of him, it had sent Longbottom his way as soon as Severus's catastrophe prone least favourite student Nymphadora Tonks had finally graduated with a miraculous success in her Potions NEWT. Severus had thought he must cry when Tonks had scraped an Outstanding in her Potions OWL, condemning him to another two years of her presence. But even that clumsy girl looked adept when compared to Longbottom. Not even patient Albus Dumbledore would have been able to stand the constant fear of exploding or melting cauldrons that boy incited in Severus and everybody else in his vicinity. Most of the time, Severus managed to prevent severe damage, but today he was distracted and foul-tempered already because of Lupin's amiable greeting at the breakfast table. He had now won Hagrid's respect as well, by sharing with him his knowledge of all kinds of "interesting" creatures he had met while travelling.There were no explosions today, but Longbottom's Shrinking Solution was so dreadful that Severus threatened him with feeding it to his toad should he not manage to repair the damage. But Severus was disappointed when the potion turned out well enough, at the end of the lesson, to shrink the toad effectively. Severus took five points from Gryffindor because Granger had helped Longbottom, even though he had told her not to. At least he had been able to bully Potter and Weasley a little, but his mood stayed at an all-time low.Severus settled down in the staffroom after lunch, lounging in his favourite armchair when, in the distance, he heard Peeves the poltergeist singing at the top of his voice a rhyme that Severus knew very well from his own school days. "Loony loopy Lupin" had sounded loudly through the corridors whenever Peeves had come across Lupin. Even the poltergeist had noticed that there was something odd about Lupin. He always singled out somebody in whom he took a special malicious interest. Nowadays it was Potter. The song was a clear announcement of Lupin's arrival, but Severus was much more interested in the loud BANG and the sudden swearing that followed it, putting a stop to the song. Apparently Lupin did not let anybody but Severus get away with rudeness.A few moments later, the staffroom door opened and the Gryffindor third-years trouped in, followed by their DADA teacher. The children endowed Lupin with respectful looks, probably due to the spell with which he must have shut Peeves up. In their eyes, his shabby robes seemed to have been replaced by the ermine and purple that Severus could not see. When Lupin made to close the door, Severus got to his feet, sneering at him."Leave it open, Lupin," he said and the werewolf looked round at him, seemingly surprised. "I'd rather not witness this." He strode towards Lupin, past the class of insufferable Gryffindors and at the door he turned again, he couldn't resist. He wanted to provoke Lupin. "Possibly no one's warned you, Lupin," he said with a malicious glance at Longbottom and Granger, "but this class contains Neville Longbottom. I would advise you not to entrust him with anything difficult. Not unless Miss Granger is hissing instructions in his ear."Lupin raised his eyebrows. "I was hoping that Neville would assist me with the first stage of the operation," he replied calmly, and though there was no smile on his face as he said it, Severus thought that he could see it lurking behind his amber eyes, "and I am sure that he will perform it admirably."Severus looked at him and found his lack of irritation intriguing, but he did not say anything more. He did not want to experience a humiliating defeat at Lupin's hands in front of those children. This reply was already bad enough, as was his failure at achieving the effect he would have achieved in any other of his colleagues. He had a reputation to lose, after all. And he would lose it if he waited for that smile to come out and play. Lupin's defiance was very subtle, and very frustrating, indeed. His amber eyes were quite tranquil as they looked up at Severus, without taking offence when he left without another word.On his way back to the dungeons, Severus imagined all kinds of ways to get rid of the blasted werewolf and his annoying answers and his mysterious smile that caught Severus's eye even before it had conquered the werewolf's lips. Many of those ways would land Severus in Azkaban, but if Black could escape, so could he. Still, none of the ways that occurred to him seemed very effective, and since Severus was still in Albus's debt, he did not find very appealing the prospect of making him angry. Not even if he could get rid of Lupin in exchange. And despite himself, Severus felt tempted to go back and lure that smile out from behind those amber eyes. It was the challenge that attracted him. There was a challenge in Lupin's smiles, in his calm voice and unaffected behaviour. A deliberate challenge, Severus thought. As though the werewolf wanted to bring out every bit of Severus there was.And as that thought crossed his mind, he found that he had challenged Lupin, too, just now, to reveal more of himself. He had done it unconsciously. But now that he came to think of it, he had wanted to see it again to figure it out: The way Lupin would raise his eyebrows at Severus's words, or the way he smiled instead of backing off, or the way he replied with a light chuckle in his husky voice, as if they were having the most commonplace, even pleasant conversation. He stood his ground, not letting Severus intimidate him, as if to show him that they were equals. He let him know every time their eyes met. Every time he held his gaze without giving in by looking away.Actually, Severus thought, ignoring the unwanted shiver that ran through his body, Lupin's new self-confidence was rather intriguing. It made him – Severus grumbled grudgingly to himself – more interesting than the other dunderheads that came across Severus every day. It made him attractive. Severus stopped dead and had the sudden urge to bang his head against the nearest stone wall to smash that horrid thought. Attractive? No, that wasn't what he had meant to think. He didn't know where that had come from. Lupin was the last person he would think of like that. Gryffindor werewolves who had almost eaten him alive did not belong in the category of people Severus would look at like that. Though he would never admit it, he did not deny that he belonged in the category of objective attractiveness, but there was a disfiguring fog hanging over Lupin's advantages, produced by their past.Severus took a deep breath to clear his mind and resumed his way to the dungeons. Lupin was a nuisance! And his persistent attempts to try and involve Severus in conversation annoyed Severus every time. Somehow it seemed almost as though Lupin wanted to annoy Severus, did it on purpose. As though he looked so calmly at him, with that smile and that amused light in his eyes, waiting for Severus's annoyance. Perhaps he found it entertaining. Maybe he enjoyed it when Severus grew angry while he remained unstirred by Severus's rudeness. Strange that Severus's rudeness had a weaker effect than Lupin's politeness. But it did not seem like Lupin to annoy somebody deliberately. At least it would not have been like him at school.Still appalled by his previous thoughts, Severus was momentarily distracted by a letter from Lucius when he entered his office. It merely informed him of the steps he would take to avenge his son's arm, abused Dumbledore, and wished Severus a successful school year. Severus usually liked to hear from Lucius, but never when it concerned school or Dumbledore or both. Lucius could be very unpleasant about these topics and Severus did not like him very much when he was so obviously using his power and influence. Besides, Severus never liked it when anyone spoke ill of Albus. It was a soft spot. Albus had been good to him, had taught him Occlumency to help him survive his time as a spy, had given him a home when he had been lost. Severus had known Lucius for a long time, but he did not overlook such behaviour simply because Lucius had helped him in the past. His help had landed Severus in the Dark Lord's inner circle, Dumbledore's had landed him in his Potions classroom. It was easy to judge which had benefited him more. Still, Severus wrote Lucius a reply before his seventh-year NEWT course and sent it by school owl.The inner circle made Severus think again about Sirius Black, looming over the cauldrons of Polyjuice Potion that his seventh-years were brewing today. Albus had believed twelve years ago that Lupin was the traitor in the rows of the Order of the Phoenix, the one who was reporting to the Dark Lord news from within the Order of the Phoenix, and after Severus had told him that Harry Potter was the boy the Dark Lord had chosen as his target after hearing of the prophecy from Severus himself, Albus had suggested the Fidelius Charm to the family, to hide them without the chance of the spy in their midst giving away their whereabouts. Severus had been confident that Albus knew what he was doing, that he knew the members of the Order well enough to know who was betraying him. That there was somebody betraying him he had learned from Severus, who had found out at a meeting from the Dark Lord himself.But Albus had been wrong. And when Severus had next entered Hogwarts, his friend Lily Potter, whom he had wanted to protect, and her husband were dead, the Dark Lord had gone, and Sirius Black had been arrested. Not Remus Lupin. The werewolf had not been the monster in their midst, he had not passed the Dark Lord information. Severus had not known who it was, nor had anyone else in the inner circle. It had been the Dark Lord's best-kept secret. For good reason. And everybody had believed that if any of the Potters' friends were to betray them, it must be Lupin. Pettigrew had been too cowardly – though the way he had died proved that he had not been quite as cowardly as everybody had believed – Sirius Black had been too much of a Gryffindor, always Potter's best friend, always loyal and brave. And that Lupin had always been odd, secretive, isolated. He surely had it in him, concerning the courage and the magical ability it took to be of service to the Dark Lord by playing a role in the Order.And he was a werewolf. That had probably been the strongest reason for the Order's certainty that it was right to shut the werewolf out of all decisions concerning the protection of the Potters. Not to Albus. To Albus he had merely seemed most likely because he was skilled, brave, and quite able to keep secrets even from those close to him. They had all been wrong and ultimately Severus had been at fault for Lily Potter's death. If only he had been able to find out who was the traitor, if only he had not heard that prophecy. If only he had expressed his doubts about Lupin's guilt. A werewolf he was, yes, but that had been the reason for Severus's doubts. The Dark Lord would not have relied on a werewolf to such an extent. Pure blood had been essential to him, also concerning the trust he placed in people. But again, Severus had wanted him to be guilty, not least of all because that would have meant that he could blame somebody he loathed for the threat against Lily's life, instead of only blaming himself. And it was not as though Lupin had ever done anything to help Severus, so Severus had never once thought about defending him or clearing him of anyone's suspicion. He had passed all responsibility to Albus and trusted his judgment. It had cost Lily her life, and Severus was the only one to blame.He shook his head and pushed her to the back of his mind, where he could bear her memory. He wondered if that was where Lupin kept his memories of his friends. But then he cursed the werewolf again for reminding him of all those things that he had tried to forget. They were too unpleasant to dwell on them. He didn't want to see or hear Lupin. Ever again. But since that was impossible if he didn't want to resign, keep the Azkaban prisoners company, or commit suicide, which were all unacceptable options, he might as well take a closer look at the Wolfsbane Potion. If he was lucky, he would be able to improve the Potion, publish those improvements and humiliate Damocles I've-Got-An-Order-Of-Merlin-First-Class Belby, being only a humble Potions master.He set to work before dinner, pondering Lupin's weight as he adjusted the ingredients to the werewolf's needs. The werewolf was much too thin and as much as he would like to, he could not just ignore it, he could not help wondering why Lupin looked as though he didn't usually have regular meals. Severus brushed the end of his quill against his forehead. He decided to check on Lupin's weight in regular intervals, to make sure he had the right amounts of all ingredients and a big enough dose of Wolfsbane for each day of the week before the full moon. Now that Lupin had access to three square meals a day, he would gain weight, surely.He pored over the instructions for a while and corrected the number of stirs, the handling of ingredients and the brewing times as he went over the brewing process in his mind and noted down his brilliant ideas. When he went to dinner he sat down between Albus and McGonagall, who simply continued their conversation across his lap."I must admit I had some reservations. I mean, as a student it was quite all right, a teacher is a different liability," said McGonagall and her voice sounded highly approving. "But I have only heard praise from the students and the rest of the staff seem quite impressed with him, too. Personally, I have experienced him as a friendly and charming man, notwithstanding the hardships he must have faced, and I am glad that he is competent, too.""I quite agree, Minerva," said Albus with a satisfied nod, "everybody tells me he is patient, likable, and has an aptitude for motivating and encouraging his students. I am very pleased, very pleased indeed. It is about time we had a proper Defence teacher and I am even more satisfied that it should be Remus.""Nobody seems to ask me what I think of him," said Severus as he helped himself to beef chops."Everybody knows what you think of him," said McGonagall dismissively, "but that doesn't mean that the rest of us must share your opinion.""You call him likable," growled Severus at her, "I call him insufferable and insolent.""What did he do to you now, Severus?" asked McGonagall in a bored voice. "Wish you a good morning?"Severus shot her a glare but did not answer, he knew what she would say if he told her that it was Lupin's provocative friendliness that annoyed him. And as though he had noticed that people were talking about him, Lupin ambled into the Hall at that precise moment, deep in conversation with Professor Flitwick again. Severus narrowed his eyes and scrutinised him, taking in his relaxed demeanour, his rapt face when listening to Flitwick telling him about some duel he had fought in his youth, judging by the wild movements he made with his arms. Hardships. Well, they were still visible in Lupin's greying hair, his darned robes, the tired air he had about him all the time. But despite all this one could think that Lupin had never done anything but teach at Hogwarts. He was at his ease again, it was obvious in the carefree smile he was wearing and the way he shook his hair out of his eyes rather nonchalantly as he looked at the High Table.Severus thought that, despite all the responsibility and the debt he had accepted upon coming to Hogwarts, it must still be a relief to teach here, being able to let go of all the worries that must have accompanied him all his life. How soon would the people surrounding him find out what he was, and how would they react? Would he find a job to feed himself soon? And how long until he lost it again? Worries that Severus had never known. His own robes were brand new, delivered just last week from Gladrags in Hogsmeade. Yet he thought that none of the other teachers, no matter how magnificent their robes, wore them in as royal a manner as Lupin wore his shabby ones. He wore them with pride it seemed, and it did not bother him that some people eyed him with derisive sneers. According to Albus, Lupin deserved the relief of a teaching position that he would not lose because of his condition. But Severus begrudged him this relief. It had come at the expense of his own peace.When Lupin's eyes drifted down the table, they found Severus's for a split second but instead of holding his gaze, like Severus had expected he would, Lupin averted his eyes almost at once, running a hand through his hair and down the back of his neck, and he did not look at Severus again all through dinner. It was quite curious. A radical change in the behaviour Severus had seen ever since Lupin had arrived at Hogwarts, and really just this afternoon. An intriguing change. Severus wanted to know what was at the bottom of it, but he would not ask. He would not give Lupin the impression that he wanted to talk to him. Or that he noticed changes in him at all. As though he were constantly paying attention to him.But Severus couldn't help noticing the whispering and the eyes that seemed to be following him out of the Hall after dinner. Glancing over his shoulder, he found McGonagall walking beside Lupin into his direction and he sped up, unwilling to be subjected to Lupin's attempts at conversation once again. He had no desire to look at that smile again, nor to try his hardest to find the things in Lupin that everybody else seemed to have noticed. So the whole staff had expressed their approval of Lupin, had they? He felt sure that none of them had ever expressed their approval of Severus. Behind Severus, Lupin chuckled, rather closer by than he had expected and when he looked over his shoulder again, he saw McGonagall and Lupin ascending the marble staircase, deep in conversation about something highly amusing it appeared. Severus thought McGonagall might have invited the werewolf for a nightcap in her office and wondered if Lupin would agree. Severus himself had felt awkward with such private meetings when he had first come to Hogwarts to teach, for those Professors had taught him in his day. Feeling like a peer and not a student had been particularly hard in the beginning."You do know you can call me Minerva, don't you, Remus?" Severus heard McGonagall say, her voice sounding half amused, half exasperated. Lupin chuckled awkwardly and rubbed his neck as Severus watched them. Severus was sure the werewolf was giving her a rather charming smile."I am trying to get used to it," he replied, the chuckle still in his voice, "but it will take a while. It is rather … weird. Just this morning Professor Flitwick told me to call him Filius and I fear I was rather as flustered as I am now. I do hope I'm not blushing."It was McGonagall's turn to chuckle. "Believe me, you will feel much less like a student and lose some of your reservation when you call us by our given names," she assured him as they reached the landing. "Ask Severus, he certainly lost some respect along with it. I tell you what, you can get used to calling me Minerva over a few ginger newts in my office. There's a bottle of single-malt Scotch that I have been wanting to open –"But Severus did not hear whether Lupin agreed or not, for they walked down the corridor and out of earshot. Silly Gryffindors. Descending to his rooms, Severus was rather disgruntled when he thought about the praise McGonagall had had for Lupin's teaching abilities. Why couldn't the werewolf be a normal dunderhead, a horrible teacher like the last Defence Against the Dark Arts professors? Why did he have to be clever and charming and cultured? Why did he have to be sociable and likable and mild? And why in Merlin's name did he have to react so intriguingly to Severus's hostility?It wasn't late yet, but Severus didn't feel like staying up, with Lupin ghosting about his thoughts, so he put out the lights, and with a glass of red wine and a yawn he retired to his bedroom. Outside, the waning moon shone down upon the grounds, dipping the lake and the forest in its cold, silvery light. Intriguing, how firm a grip that light has on some, was the last thought on Severus's mind that night before he drifted off to sleep, very intriguing indeed.

	Title: Fortune's Might
	Title:
	 Fortune's Might
	Pairing: SS/RL
	Pairing:
	Disclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.
	Disclaimer
	Author's Note: Suzululu4moe, as soon as somebody says "poor Severus" I know I've done something right. Yeah, Emily-pino, I'm trying to keep the development of this story more natural than it used to be, glad you noticed and thanks for the compliment! Don't worry, Chase'sGirl19, I'm not gonna delete the old stories, but I'm happy you like the new one!
	Author's Note
	
	Lesson Three: Allure
	Lesson Three: Allure
	When Severus woke next morning, he was drowsier than usual and much less inclined to get up. Sitting up rather reluctantly as he heard students moving above, he rubbed his eyes to chase away the persistent dreams that clung to him like spoilt potions. Lupin's chuckle still hadn't departed from his ears and Severus found him more and more insufferable as he got out of bed and trudged into the bathroom. He hated laughter, he wouldn't have it around him, he hated it when people laughed at him. He hated how Lupin's presence brought back unpleasant memories including malicious laughter, memories he had tried to bury as deeply as possible.
	He didn't want to remember, but now every time he saw Lupin's face, he would. He looked at his own angry face in the mirror, glaring, and wondered how this could have no effect whatsoever on Lupin. It even made Severus recoil slightly. With a snort he splashed some cold water into his face to get rid of the drowsiness and that husky chuckle ringing in his ears. Lupin had no right to laugh in his presence, should know that it reminded Severus unpleasantly of their school days. But even as that thought crossed his mind he remembered that Lupin had never laughed. Had never even looked. That was why Severus had not known his eyes to be so astonishingly amber. Lupin had never directed them at him to watch him being tormented by Sirius Black and James Potter. He had looked away. Doing nothing. He hadn't approved. But he hadn't intervened either. The anger turned into a dull ache. He could have done something. Anything. But he hadn't cared enough. Even with that prefect's badge on his chest.
	something
	As Severus made his way to the Great Hall, he took cruel pleasure in the way the new first-years jumped out of his way, obviously frightened, when he passed through the crowd of students streaming to breakfast. Sweeping past the house tables, Severus hardly noticed Lupin, who was making his way rather slowly towards his seat, but Lupin noticed him and made it known at once.
	"Good morning to you, Severus," he said hoarsely and Severus bristled immediately when Lupin caught up with him. "Unusually late today, aren't you? Personally, I tend to sleep in, I'm afraid. In future, I'll have to hurry to catch breakfast at all. But I suppose that you are usually among the first at the breakfast table, at least that's how I remember it."
	Severus shot him a poisonous look to make him drop it and leave him alone, but once more to no effect. Lupin smiled at him, meeting his eyes, entirely unimpressed by his glare, clearly expecting him to reply. From the High Table, Albus's blue eyes were twinkling in their direction and he looked positively delighted to see his two youngest staff members in conversation. But no sir, Severus would not let him run away with a false impression.
	"Could we skip the small talk and return to silence?" said Severus in a low, cold voice. "I will have you know that I have not the slightest desire to chat with you about my daily habits. Or anything else, for that matter."
	"Ah, I see," replied Lupin but he did not sound offended, rather amused once again. "Well, enjoy your breakfast, then."
	As Severus met his eyes again he had the feeling that they were looking right through him, without any need for Legilimency, to the very bottom of him and it made him so uncomfortable that he averted his eyes and sped up to leave Lupin behind and sit down beside McGonagall. He felt Lupin's eyes on him for some time longer and none of his threatening looks into the werewolf's direction made a difference. It was as if Lupin just ignored all the hatred that filled Severus's every word, his every look and gesture, when directed at him. It frustrated Severus immensely. Why was it that Remus Lupin was so immune to Severus's deliberate rudeness. It affected everybody, usually, in one way or another. It incited anger, pain, or equal rudeness. But Lupin did not react in any of the usual patterns. As a boy, he had been much more affected by Severus's remarks, by his open hostility. He had been very different, indeed. What had changed?
	There was something about him, apart from his hair and his robes and his voice, that was different. Different from the last time they had met, before the war had ended. His smiles seemed genuine, but were they really? Severus narrowed his eyes when he saw Lupin smile at McGonagall. There was something about him that seemed forced, wasn't there? He had always been friendly and had never lost his temper at school, either, a quiet and intelligent boy that hadn't quite fitted in with the show-off team Black and Potter had formed. But he seemed stronger now. Self-confident.
	"A Boggart? Are you sure?" Lupin said and sounded exhilarated.
	"Yes," replied Professor Flitwick squeakily, "in the wardrobe in the staffroom. It moved in yesterday. Mr Filch was complaining about having to clear it out."
	"Well, I think I can help him there," said Lupin cheerfully and Severus saw him turn to Albus. "Headmaster, if you would give me permission to use the Boggart in the staffroom for my first lesson with the Gryffindor third-years, I'd be much obliged."
	"Naturally, Remus, a very good idea," replied Albus and Severus rolled his eyes as he buttered a crumpet rather forcefully. It was not a good idea, at least if Lupin wanted to keep his little secret. A Boggart would transform into the full moon when facing him. But what did it matter to Severus?
	not
	It was Thursday, which meant that Severus's most dreaded lesson had arrived. The Gryffindor and Slytherin third-year class had always brought cold foreboding with it, for it contained Neville Longbottom, the nightmare of every serious Potions master. As though Life had wanted to make fun of him, it had sent Longbottom his way as soon as Severus's catastrophe prone least favourite student Nymphadora Tonks had finally graduated with a miraculous success in her Potions NEWT. Severus had thought he must cry when Tonks had scraped an Outstanding in her Potions OWL, condemning him to another two years of her presence. But even that clumsy girl looked adept when compared to Longbottom. Not even patient Albus Dumbledore would have been able to stand the constant fear of exploding or melting cauldrons that boy incited in Severus and everybody else in his vicinity. Most of the time, Severus managed to prevent severe damage, but today he was distracted and foul-tempered already because of Lupin's amiable greeting at the breakfast table. He had now won Hagrid's respect as well, by sharing with him his knowledge of all kinds of "interesting" creatures he had met while travelling.
	There were no explosions today, but Longbottom's Shrinking Solution was so dreadful that Severus threatened him with feeding it to his toad should he not manage to repair the damage. But Severus was disappointed when the potion turned out well enough, at the end of the lesson, to shrink the toad effectively. Severus took five points from Gryffindor because Granger had helped Longbottom, even though he had told her not to. At least he had been able to bully Potter and Weasley a little, but his mood stayed at an all-time low.
	Severus settled down in the staffroom after lunch, lounging in his favourite armchair when, in the distance, he heard Peeves the poltergeist singing at the top of his voice a rhyme that Severus knew very well from his own school days. "Loony loopy Lupin" had sounded loudly through the corridors whenever Peeves had come across Lupin. Even the poltergeist had noticed that there was something odd about Lupin. He always singled out somebody in whom he took a special malicious interest. Nowadays it was Potter. The song was a clear announcement of Lupin's arrival, but Severus was much more interested in the loud BANG and the sudden swearing that followed it, putting a stop to the song. Apparently Lupin did not let anybody but Severus get away with rudeness.
	A few moments later, the staffroom door opened and the Gryffindor third-years trouped in, followed by their DADA teacher. The children endowed Lupin with respectful looks, probably due to the spell with which he must have shut Peeves up. In their eyes, his shabby robes seemed to have been replaced by the ermine and purple that Severus could not see. When Lupin made to close the door, Severus got to his feet, sneering at him.
	"Leave it open, Lupin," he said and the werewolf looked round at him, seemingly surprised. "I'd rather not witness this." He strode towards Lupin, past the class of insufferable Gryffindors and at the door he turned again, he couldn't resist. He wanted to provoke Lupin. "Possibly no one's warned you, Lupin," he said with a malicious glance at Longbottom and Granger, "but this class contains Neville Longbottom. I would advise you not to entrust him with anything difficult. Not unless Miss Granger is hissing instructions in his ear."
	Lupin raised his eyebrows. "I was hoping that Neville would assist me with the first stage of the operation," he replied calmly, and though there was no smile on his face as he said it, Severus thought that he could see it lurking behind his amber eyes, "and I am sure that he will perform it admirably."
	Severus looked at him and found his lack of irritation intriguing, but he did not say anything more. He did not want to experience a humiliating defeat at Lupin's hands in front of those children. This reply was already bad enough, as was his failure at achieving the effect he would have achieved in any other of his colleagues. He had a reputation to lose, after all. And he would lose it if he waited for that smile to come out and play. Lupin's defiance was very subtle, and very frustrating, indeed. His amber eyes were quite tranquil as they looked up at Severus, without taking offence when he left without another word.
	On his way back to the dungeons, Severus imagined all kinds of ways to get rid of the blasted werewolf and his annoying answers and his mysterious smile that caught Severus's eye even before it had conquered the werewolf's lips. Many of those ways would land Severus in Azkaban, but if Black could escape, so could he. Still, none of the ways that occurred to him seemed very effective, and since Severus was still in Albus's debt, he did not find very appealing the prospect of making him angry. Not even if he could get rid of Lupin in exchange. And despite himself, Severus felt tempted to go back and lure that smile out from behind those amber eyes. It was the challenge that attracted him. There was a challenge in Lupin's smiles, in his calm voice and unaffected behaviour. A deliberate challenge, Severus thought. As though the werewolf wanted to bring out every bit of Severus there was.
	And as that thought crossed his mind, he found that he had challenged Lupin, too, just now, to reveal more of himself. He had done it unconsciously. But now that he came to think of it, he had wanted to see it again to figure it out: The way Lupin would raise his eyebrows at Severus's words, or the way he smiled instead of backing off, or the way he replied with a light chuckle in his husky voice, as if they were having the most commonplace, even pleasant conversation. He stood his ground, not letting Severus intimidate him, as if to show him that they were equals. He let him know every time their eyes met. Every time he held his gaze without giving in by looking away.
	Actually, Severus thought, ignoring the unwanted shiver that ran through his body, Lupin's new self-confidence was rather intriguing. It made him – Severus grumbled grudgingly to himself – more interesting than the other dunderheads that came across Severus every day. It made him attractive. Severus stopped dead and had the sudden urge to bang his head against the nearest stone wall to smash that horrid thought. Attractive? No, that wasn't what he had meant to think. He didn't know where that had come from. Lupin was the last person he would think of like that. Gryffindor werewolves who had almost eaten him alive did not belong in the category of people Severus would look at like that. Though he would never admit it, he did not deny that he belonged in the category of objective attractiveness, but there was a disfiguring fog hanging over Lupin's advantages, produced by their past.
	Severus took a deep breath to clear his mind and resumed his way to the dungeons. Lupin was a nuisance! And his persistent attempts to try and involve Severus in conversation annoyed Severus every time. Somehow it seemed almost as though Lupin wanted to annoy Severus, did it on purpose. As though he looked so calmly at him, with that smile and that amused light in his eyes, waiting for Severus's annoyance. Perhaps he found it entertaining. Maybe he enjoyed it when Severus grew angry while he remained unstirred by Severus's rudeness. Strange that Severus's rudeness had a weaker effect than Lupin's politeness. But it did not seem like Lupin to annoy somebody deliberately. At least it would not have been like him at school.
	wanted
	Still appalled by his previous thoughts, Severus was momentarily distracted by a letter from Lucius when he entered his office. It merely informed him of the steps he would take to avenge his son's arm, abused Dumbledore, and wished Severus a successful school year. Severus usually liked to hear from Lucius, but never when it concerned school or Dumbledore or both. Lucius could be very unpleasant about these topics and Severus did not like him very much when he was so obviously using his power and influence. Besides, Severus never liked it when anyone spoke ill of Albus. It was a soft spot. Albus had been good to him, had taught him Occlumency to help him survive his time as a spy, had given him a home when he had been lost. Severus had known Lucius for a long time, but he did not overlook such behaviour simply because Lucius had helped him in the past. His help had landed Severus in the Dark Lord's inner circle, Dumbledore's had landed him in his Potions classroom. It was easy to judge which had benefited him more. Still, Severus wrote Lucius a reply before his seventh-year NEWT course and sent it by school owl.
	The inner circle made Severus think again about Sirius Black, looming over the cauldrons of Polyjuice Potion that his seventh-years were brewing today. Albus had believed twelve years ago that Lupin was the traitor in the rows of the Order of the Phoenix, the one who was reporting to the Dark Lord news from within the Order of the Phoenix, and after Severus had told him that Harry Potter was the boy the Dark Lord had chosen as his target after hearing of the prophecy from Severus himself, Albus had suggested the Fidelius Charm to the family, to hide them without the chance of the spy in their midst giving away their whereabouts. Severus had been confident that Albus knew what he was doing, that he knew the members of the Order well enough to know who was betraying him. That there was somebody betraying him he had learned from Severus, who had found out at a meeting from the Dark Lord himself.
	But Albus had been wrong. And when Severus had next entered Hogwarts, his friend Lily Potter, whom he had wanted to protect, and her husband were dead, the Dark Lord had gone, and Sirius Black had been arrested. Not Remus Lupin. The werewolf had not been the monster in their midst, he had not passed the Dark Lord information. Severus had not known who it was, nor had anyone else in the inner circle. It had been the Dark Lord's best-kept secret. For good reason. And everybody had believed that if any of the Potters' friends were to betray them, it must be Lupin. Pettigrew had been too cowardly – though the way he had died proved that he had not been quite as cowardly as everybody had believed – Sirius Black had been too much of a Gryffindor, always Potter's best friend, always loyal and brave. And that Lupin had always been odd, secretive, isolated. He surely had it in him, concerning the courage and the magical ability it took to be of service to the Dark Lord by playing a role in the Order.
	And he was a werewolf. That had probably been the strongest reason for the Order's certainty that it was right to shut the werewolf out of all decisions concerning the protection of the Potters. Not to Albus. To Albus he had merely seemed most likely because he was skilled, brave, and quite able to keep secrets even from those close to him. They had all been wrong and ultimately Severus had been at fault for Lily Potter's death. If only he had been able to find out who was the traitor, if only he had not heard that prophecy. If only he had expressed his doubts about Lupin's guilt. A werewolf he was, yes, but that had been the reason for Severus's doubts. The Dark Lord would not have relied on a werewolf to such an extent. Pure blood had been essential to him, also concerning the trust he placed in people. But again, Severus had wanted him to be guilty, not least of all because that would have meant that he could blame somebody he loathed for the threat against Lily's life, instead of only blaming himself. And it was not as though Lupin had ever done anything to help Severus, so Severus had never once thought about defending him or clearing him of anyone's suspicion. He had passed all responsibility to Albus and trusted his judgment. It had cost Lily her life, and Severus was the only one to blame.
	He shook his head and pushed her to the back of his mind, where he could bear her memory. He wondered if that was where Lupin kept his memories of his friends. But then he cursed the werewolf again for reminding him of all those things that he had tried to forget. They were too unpleasant to dwell on them. He didn't want to see or hear Lupin. Ever again. But since that was impossible if he didn't want to resign, keep the Azkaban prisoners company, or commit suicide, which were all unacceptable options, he might as well take a closer look at the Wolfsbane Potion. If he was lucky, he would be able to improve the Potion, publish those improvements and humiliate Damocles I've-Got-An-Order-Of-Merlin-First-Class Belby, being only a humble Potions master.
	He set to work before dinner, pondering Lupin's weight as he adjusted the ingredients to the werewolf's needs. The werewolf was much too thin and as much as he would like to, he could not just ignore it, he could not help wondering why Lupin looked as though he didn't usually have regular meals. Severus brushed the end of his quill against his forehead. He decided to check on Lupin's weight in regular intervals, to make sure he had the right amounts of all ingredients and a big enough dose of Wolfsbane for each day of the week before the full moon. Now that Lupin had access to three square meals a day, he would gain weight, surely.
	He pored over the instructions for a while and corrected the number of stirs, the handling of ingredients and the brewing times as he went over the brewing process in his mind and noted down his brilliant ideas. When he went to dinner he sat down between Albus and McGonagall, who simply continued their conversation across his lap.
	"I must admit I had some reservations. I mean, as a student it was quite all right, a teacher is a different liability," said McGonagall and her voice sounded highly approving. "But I have only heard praise from the students and the rest of the staff seem quite impressed with him, too. Personally, I have experienced him as a friendly and charming man, notwithstanding the hardships he must have faced, and I am glad that he is competent, too."
	"I quite agree, Minerva," said Albus with a satisfied nod, "everybody tells me he is patient, likable, and has an aptitude for motivating and encouraging his students. I am very pleased, very pleased indeed. It is about time we had a proper Defence teacher and I am even more satisfied that it should be Remus."
	"Nobody seems to ask me what I think of him," said Severus as he helped himself to beef chops.
	"Everybody knows what you think of him," said McGonagall dismissively, "but that doesn't mean that the rest of us must share your opinion."
	"You call him likable," growled Severus at her, "I call him insufferable and insolent."
	"What did he do to you now, Severus?" asked McGonagall in a bored voice. "Wish you a good morning?"
	Severus shot her a glare but did not answer, he knew what she would say if he told her that it was Lupin's provocative friendliness that annoyed him. And as though he had noticed that people were talking about him, Lupin ambled into the Hall at that precise moment, deep in conversation with Professor Flitwick again. Severus narrowed his eyes and scrutinised him, taking in his relaxed demeanour, his rapt face when listening to Flitwick telling him about some duel he had fought in his youth, judging by the wild movements he made with his arms. Hardships. Well, they were still visible in Lupin's greying hair, his darned robes, the tired air he had about him all the time. But despite all this one could think that Lupin had never done anything but teach at Hogwarts. He was at his ease again, it was obvious in the carefree smile he was wearing and the way he shook his hair out of his eyes rather nonchalantly as he looked at the High Table.
	Severus thought that, despite all the responsibility and the debt he had accepted upon coming to Hogwarts, it must still be a relief to teach here, being able to let go of all the worries that must have accompanied him all his life. How soon would the people surrounding him find out what he was, and how would they react? Would he find a job to feed himself soon? And how long until he lost it again? Worries that Severus had never known. His own robes were brand new, delivered just last week from Gladrags in Hogsmeade. Yet he thought that none of the other teachers, no matter how magnificent their robes, wore them in as royal a manner as Lupin wore his shabby ones. He wore them with pride it seemed, and it did not bother him that some people eyed him with derisive sneers. According to Albus, Lupin deserved the relief of a teaching position that he would not lose because of his condition. But Severus begrudged him this relief. It had come at the expense of his own peace.
	When Lupin's eyes drifted down the table, they found Severus's for a split second but instead of holding his gaze, like Severus had expected he would, Lupin averted his eyes almost at once, running a hand through his hair and down the back of his neck, and he did not look at Severus again all through dinner. It was quite curious. A radical change in the behaviour Severus had seen ever since Lupin had arrived at Hogwarts, and really just this afternoon. An intriguing change. Severus wanted to know what was at the bottom of it, but he would not ask. He would not give Lupin the impression that he wanted to talk to him. Or that he noticed changes in him at all. As though he were constantly paying attention to him.
	But Severus couldn't help noticing the whispering and the eyes that seemed to be following him out of the Hall after dinner. Glancing over his shoulder, he found McGonagall walking beside Lupin into his direction and he sped up, unwilling to be subjected to Lupin's attempts at conversation once again. He had no desire to look at that smile again, nor to try his hardest to find the things in Lupin that everybody else seemed to have noticed. So the whole staff had expressed their approval of Lupin, had they? He felt sure that none of them had ever expressed their approval of Severus. Behind Severus, Lupin chuckled, rather closer by than he had expected and when he looked over his shoulder again, he saw McGonagall and Lupin ascending the marble staircase, deep in conversation about something highly amusing it appeared. Severus thought McGonagall might have invited the werewolf for a nightcap in her office and wondered if Lupin would agree. Severus himself had felt awkward with such private meetings when he had first come to Hogwarts to teach, for those Professors had taught him in his day. Feeling like a peer and not a student had been particularly hard in the beginning.
	"You do know you can call me Minerva, don't you, Remus?" Severus heard McGonagall say, her voice sounding half amused, half exasperated. Lupin chuckled awkwardly and rubbed his neck as Severus watched them. Severus was sure the werewolf was giving her a rather charming smile.
	"I am trying to get used to it," he replied, the chuckle still in his voice, "but it will take a while. It is rather … weird. Just this morning Professor Flitwick told me to call him Filius and I fear I was rather as flustered as I am now. I do hope I'm not blushing."
	It was McGonagall's turn to chuckle. "Believe me, you will feel much less like a student and lose some of your reservation when you call us by our given names," she assured him as they reached the landing. "Ask Severus, he certainly lost some respect along with it. I tell you what, you can get used to calling me Minerva over a few ginger newts in my office. There's a bottle of single-malt Scotch that I have been wanting to open –"
	But Severus did not hear whether Lupin agreed or not, for they walked down the corridor and out of earshot. Silly Gryffindors. Descending to his rooms, Severus was rather disgruntled when he thought about the praise McGonagall had had for Lupin's teaching abilities. Why couldn't the werewolf be a normal dunderhead, a horrible teacher like the last Defence Against the Dark Arts professors? Why did he have to be clever and charming and cultured? Why did he have to be sociable and likable and mild? And why in Merlin's name did he have to react so intriguingly to Severus's hostility?
	It wasn't late yet, but Severus didn't feel like staying up, with Lupin ghosting about his thoughts, so he put out the lights, and with a glass of red wine and a yawn he retired to his bedroom. Outside, the waning moon shone down upon the grounds, dipping the lake and the forest in its cold, silvery light. Intriguing, how firm a grip that light has on some, was the last thought on Severus's mind that night before he drifted off to sleep, very intriguing indeed.
	Intriguing, how firm a grip that light has on some
	very intriguing indeed
	
Title: Fortune's MightPairing: SS/RLDisclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.Author's Note: Thanks for the great reviews, everybody! Chase'sGirl19, it's so nice to read that the work I put into this story is noticed and appreciated, thanks! Welcome back, Kiraling and Resevius, this is starting to feel like a get-together of old friends :).Lesson Four: Olive BranchIt was Friday. Usually on Fridays Severus was rather less unpleasant than on the other days of the week, for it meant the end of the week and the start of some pleasant alone time in his rooms without disturbances. He would just have to endure a few more hours in the company of noisy Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs before sweet redemption allowed him to retreat to his sitting room or his lab and to shut out everybody he did not want to see. Today this also meant that he could finally leave behind Lupin, for not even the werewolf could enter his rooms without permission, and even if the staffroom and Severus's office were not safe, Severus's private space was a werewolf-free zone.The rest of the castle, on the other hand, seemed to be much less so. Even when the werewolf wasn't present, Severus had the impression that everybody was whispering Lupin's name as he walked to breakfast. Severus wondered what the werewolf could have done to suddenly be on everyone's lips but almost at once this curiosity was squashed by the annoyance caused by several groups of students who seemed to be looking furtively at him as they talked quietly together and started to snigger when he looked round at them. That was not the effect he usually achieved by glaring at the children. All through breakfast Severus had the impression that the students and even the staff were casting him amused glances, but nobody told him what the joke was or let him overhear their whispered conversations. This seemed to be yet another thing that the whole castle knew while he was kept in the dark.Somehow Severus had an ominous feeling and looked down the table to see if Lupin appeared to know anything about it, but the werewolf wasn't there at all. Remembering that Lupin had told him he was a late riser, Severus huffed and glowered into the Hall, challenging all those people to tell him what was going on. But even when he left for his first lesson he was no wiser, though the Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff fifth-years behaved in the same mysterious way during their double-Potions class. He handed gave a student detention for a burst of laughter that positively appalled him, and took several points from the many students who were whispering Lupin's name while telling a story that he was apparently not to know.He felt like a fool when the children left his dungeon for lunch, and when he made his way upstairs, too, a little while later, he racked his brains trying to figure out what exactly could have happened to make the whole school so giddy. He was late for lunch, and when he reached the Entrance Hall it was deserted but for a single man, entering through the open front doors, laden with shopping bags. Severus stopped and looked round at him, recognising Lupin at once. He was wearing a smile and humming to himself as his amber eyes found Severus and he inclined his head, walking towards him in a slight curve."Hello, Severus," he said pleasantly, shaking his hair out of his eyes with the same nonchalant jerk of the head that Severus had seen yesterday. "I hope you are well? No exploded cauldrons today?"Severus sneered at him and eyed the shopping bags as Lupin came to a halt not quite too close to him. "Where have you been, Lupin?" he asked silkily. He tried not to sound too interested, but he could not deny that he was curious. "Does the Headmaster pay you to go shopping during teaching hours?""I had a free period and used it to go into Hogsmeade," said Lupin mildly, turning the bags for Severus to see the Honeydukes logo. "I had to stock up on chocolate. Quite a few younger children are having difficulties with the Dementors and, personally, I prefer to carry some chocolate around with me at all times, just in case. Also bought some Toothflossing Springmints while I was at it. I felt like a boy again when I walked into Honeydukes with my pockets full of gold for a change."Lupin looked more like the boy he had been as he said this, his eyes were twinkling golden and his smile was different once again, exhilarated. Severus narrowed his eyes at him. "You used your first salary to buy sweets instead of a new set of robes?" he asked with a sneer."I also bought other things," said Lupin, still smiling, "like quills, ink, and parchment at Scrivenshafts. And I looked into Derwish and Banges. I found I have grown just a little too old for Zonko's, though. And to be quite frank with you, I don't care if my robes are handsome or not, looks are a mere illusion, they wither with time. Chocolate on the other hand …" He trailed off and shrugged with a contented chuckle. Severus tried to suppress a shiver but couldn't. If anything, the huskiness had increased since yesterday and Severus supposed the long walk from Hogsmeade through the cold air was at fault.Lupin gave him a curious look, his brow slightly creased but his smile unwaveringly in place, and Severus scowled back at him, wondering if Lupin thought that his looks were only an illusion, too, and that underneath them Severus was quite a cuddly guy. Lupin should know better. But there was something careful in Lupin's gaze, something searching that made Severus suspicious again. Maybe Lupin wondered if Severus had heard what everybody was sniggering about. When Lupin was finally satisfied as to Severus's ignorance or whatever he had been looking for, he reached into one of his bags and rummaged for a moment."I have something here … Minerva – Merlin, it's still strange to call her that – she told me that you like them," he muttered, and to Severus's utter surprise he pulled from the bag a packet of licorice ravens from Honeydukes. He held them out to Severus and smiled quite broadly, cocking his head to one side. Severus stared at him and wondered if he had lost his mind."What do you mean by this?" he asked crossly, and Lupin's eyebrows elevated again, like they had done several times before."I mean to be nice," he replied simply and stubbornly held the sweets out to him."If you believe that I will accept anything you want to give me you are more of a fool than I thought," spat Severus and pulled his eyes away from Lupin, striding across the Hall to have lunch and leaving Lupin behind. The werewolf did not call him back, did not follow him. And he did not appear at lunch. Severus was outraged. Lupin was acting as though they were friends, as though everything was forgiven and forgotten. But Severus would never forgive and he certainly would not forget. If the werewolf thought that he could change Severus's mind by acting as though he was interested in him or that he could twist him around his finger by "being nice", he was barking up the wrong tree. Or rather howling. Severus smirked to himself as he for once didn't pay attention to the whispers and the sniggers that seemed to be revolving not only around Lupin but also around him.But when he left the Great Hall for his free period, he noticed it again: the sniggering, the pointing, the whispered conversations. And still no member of staff seemed to be meeting his eye or giving him the chance to talk to them long enough to inquire after that apparently funny story. But Severus would find out. Settling down in the armchair in the staffroom, Severus made himself quite invisible and waited for his prey. Someone would come whom he could corner and ask what was going on. He didn't have to wait long until McGonagall and Vector entered, talking animatedly. They hadn't noticed him yet, so he kept silent in his armchair, straining his ears to catch their conversation."I still can't quite believe it, that Lupin's really something," said Vector and Severus was sure that he was lucky this time. They must be talking about whatever he wasn't supposed to know. "Hilarious. To think –! I wish I had been there.""Don't you let Severus hear that!" said McGonagall warningly and now it was plain that what Severus had feared was true. "Remus didn't come to breakfast this morning for a reason. He meant to apologise to Severus but I doubt that Severus even knows yet. Remus wasn't at lunch, either, in case you hadn't noticed.""I think he'd do better to avoid Severus for a while," said Vector and there was amusement in her voice. "Or it might just end in bloodshed. Severus already seems to hate him.""That is the precise reason why Remus was so eager to speak to Severus about the matter," said McGonagall seriously, "in private, he said. Personally, I recommended witnesses."This made Severus even more curious. What could Lupin have done that would make Severus dislike him even more? What in Merlin's name had happened that was such a big deal? And why had the werewolf done it at all if he got cold feet now? He had seemed rather normal when Severus had met him in the Entrance Hall earlier. But he had brought him sweets and said he wanted to be nice. Was this regret? Penitence? Had he wanted to make up for something? He had looked as though he was searching Severus for something. Perhaps he had wanted to find out if Severus knew what he had done. But if he really wanted to apologise for something why had he not done it, there in the deserted Entrance Hall? Perhaps he wanted to avoid a confrontation.McGonagall sighed as she sat down at the table, but Vector was grinning. "Come on, that Lupin has a good sense of humor!" Vector said, and Severus froze. "I haven't had such a good laugh since Dumbledore dyed his own beard pink years ago."They both chuckled and Severus didn't like it at all. "Well," McGonagall said finally. "I'm sure he didn't mean it as a joke. He said it was a spontaneous idea. But then again, what was he expecting? Of course the whole school would laugh their heads off at that! Maybe it was a bout of insanity that overcame him. In any case, it was either really brave or suicidal, sticking Severus's Boggart replica into Augusta Longbottom's dress. I heard that there was lace on it on top of everything."Severus felt as though somebody had plunged him in a pool of ice water. His brain tried to process this information and was still not done when anger was already bubbling up in Severus's stomach. Lupin had dared put him in an old woman's dress? He didn't even realise at that moment that he had not really been wearing a dress, it was insubstantial to him that it had been a Boggart, he felt humiliated in an instant, ill-treated, abused, violated! As though Lupin had really used magic to transform his robes into a dress and have the whole school laugh at him. No matter that only the Gryffindor third-years had seen it, the whole school knew and their imaginations were worse even than reality could have been.Severus got slowly to his feet, his hands balled into shaking fists, and as he turned to the two witches they noticed him and their faces fell in shock, which would have been quite a funny sight had Severus not been fuming with anger that he did not want to let out – not because he thought that those two didn't deserve to be subjected to it, but because he wanted to save it all for Lupin. Severus glared at McGonagall, for he found himself unable to even look at Vector, who had been so amused by his public ridicule."He has done what?" hissed Severus and his voice was shaking slightly as he suppressed the fury that was tearing at his throat.McGonagall exchanged a guilty look with Vector and cleared her throat. "Severus, I didn't notice you at all," she said. "Well, apparently you are Longbottom's Boggart, so Remus had to improvise when he had the Gryffindor third-years tackle one yesterday. I take it you hadn't heard yet?""Why, my colleagues made sure of that, did they not?" he pressed, feeling the blood pulsing furiously through his veins. "And your beloved Lupin didn't have the guts to tell me about it personally. Oh, but he is probably enjoying himself thoroughly at my expense. He is probably proud that he managed to make a fool of me in his first week here!""Oh, don't be silly, Severus," said McGonagall gruffly and now Severus couldn't even look at her anymore. He saw the amusement on her face, he saw the hidden laughter in her eyes. It was nauseating. "You're exaggerating as usual. He didn't mean anything by it. It was only a Boggart.""Only a Boggart? Only a – it was me nonetheless!" snapped Severus and turned his back on them, wondering whether he should stay or leave. Now that he knew what everybody was sniggering about, he almost didn't dare leave this secluded place anymore. He did not want to go out there and hear them laughing at him. He wanted to Obliviate the whole castle. How could he live peacefully if he knew that everybody was laughing at him because of this dress business. McGonagall did not understand. Nobody could. It was as though Severus was hoisted up by the ankle again, in front of dozens of laughing students. His stomach churned. He was furious just so he didn't have to give in to humiliation and embarrassment, his old acquaintances. If he could only lay hands on Lupin now, witnesses or not, he would –But at that very moment the door opened and a few of his colleagues entered the room, Lupin among them, wearing his usual smile, his hands in his pockets, and that tiredly nonchalant air about him enraged Severus even more. But as he caught sight of Severus, he stopped in his tracks and his smile slipped off his face. It was the first time that he seemed seriously uncomfortable in Severus's presence and Severus knew now that it was guilt that caused this change in him. The knowledge that he had done something wrong. He was aware that Severus had found out about the Boggart, other than before lunch in the Entrance Hall he did not act as though nothing had happened. It was as though he had waited for Severus to find out and was now ready to accept his wrath as punishment."You!" said Severus in a dangerous whisper, but in spite of Severus's murderous fury, Lupin stepped forward and held up his hands to pacify him."Listen, Severus," he said in that calm, hoarse voice which only made Severus angrier, "I know you must be upset, but if you just let me explain, I'm sure we can sort this out –""You want to explain?" asked Severus in a deadly voice and Lupin frowned. "What is there to explain? You thought you wanted a good laugh and there I was, the perfect victim for your idle enjoyment. How dare you ridicule me? How dare you make me the laughing-stock of the whole school? Who do you think you are?""Please, Severus, I didn't mean to do any such thing," replied Lupin quietly, looking quite stricken. "I had no intention to hurt you in any way, I simply failed to consider the consequences of my actions. I couldn't have known that you are what Neville fears most, I was surprised and needed a quick solution, that is all. Laughter is what finishes a Boggart, so I had to think of a way to –""To ridicule me!" spat Severus and found that that was proof enough of the fact that Lupin had indeed meant to make fun of him. It was most impertinent of him to deny it. He was aware of the fact that, though the rest of the staff were pretending not to be listening, they were all glancing furtively at them both. And they were on Lupin's side, no doubt."Well, yes and no," conceded Lupin reluctantly and he seemed rather troubled now, "you weren't even present, it was a Boggart, not you personally. I was only thinking of Neville at that moment, I did not think of anything else. Frankly, I found it more important to bolster his self-confidence than to worry about what that Boggart would mean to you. I see now that it was a mistake to exchange Neville's success for your dignity, but I assure you that it wasn't my intention to take it from you in the first place. I wasn't thinking –""Well, that doesn't surprise me," snapped Severus and his hand was closing over his wand in his pocket. He wanted to hex Lupin, here and now, make him sprout something nasty and hilarious-looking so he would know what it felt like to be laughed at. Lupin had always been under somebody's protection, he had no idea how Severus was feeling. His empty words changed nothing. "You are always only thinking of yourself! First you come here and take my job away from me, then you go and steal my time with your bloody Potion, and now you pay me back for it like this?"Lupin looked so guilty now that it gave Severus some satisfaction. He looked as though he was about to confess a horrid murder that had haunted him for ages. "I am sorry," he said and sounded genuinely regretful, though Severus was not sure whether anything Lupin did or said was genuine. "But what should I have done? I had already let Neville know that he was playing a big part in the lesson. Should I have told him that he would simply have to avoid Boggarts altogether because you are his greatest fear?""Sounds like a better solution than putting me into a blasted dress!" Severus was speaking quite loudly now, quite involuntarily so. Nobody else affected him like this. His anger was bursting out of him to throw itself at Lupin and attack him, but the werewolf did not back off, he was standing his ground. It was frustrating that he didn't even flinch. Severus wondered savagely if he would flinch should he feel Severus's bare hands round his neck.Lupin heaved a heavy sigh. "Like I said, I am sorry and I fear there is nothing more I can say," he replied calmly, shaking his head, and the grey in his hair caught the sunlight and glittered fetchingly. Severus was momentarily distracted. "But what's done is done, and it can't be changed. I did not mean to make fun of you or to upset you, not to speak of seeming ungrateful. I can only express my regret and hope you will forgive me."Severus had listened, but felt no better. They were hollow words in his ears. They didn't change anything. Lupin was right, the act of ridiculing Severus could not be undone and it was almost agonising to Severus to think of it. Lupin's apology meant nothing. It didn't erase anyone's memory or mental picture of Severus in a dress. It didn't stop anyone laughing. And Severus knew they were laughing. All of them. And even though Severus enjoyed having Lupin at his mercy, he couldn't shut out the laughter in his ears. It was there all the time. Haunting him. But Lupin …"That doesn't change the fact that you made a fool of me," hissed Severus and Lupin lowered his eyes to the floor for a moment of weakness. When he raised them again, his eyes were still placid. There seemed to be an unwavering calm in him that Severus wanted to destroy. Severus caught Vector's eye and found her trying to suppress a smirk, surely at the renewed idea of him in a lacey dress, and he just wanted to vanish into the ground. He knew he was still flushed but he would not show his colleagues what he felt. He wanted Lupin to reveal what he felt. "Thought you'd carry on where your glorious friends left off, did you, Lupin? Thought that you'd go to new lengths to humiliate me, pull off something all new and unforgettable in their memory?"And there it was. The effect. Not as obvious as he had wished for it to be, but it was there. Lupin staggered. Not physically, but behind his amber eyes Severus saw the short flicker of an expression of shock and shame. And it was fascinating. As if after years and years of exhausting research he had finally succeeded in brewing the most magnificent new potion and solved an ancient problem. It made him feel triumphant and gleeful and it let him forget the laughter. And then it was gone. Replaced by Lupin's usual unaffected expression. And suddenly Severus knew what made the werewolf so different from the boy he had been: it was this mask that he donned to hide behind."Don't accuse me of something as shameful as that," the werewolf said, his voice suddenly cold. "I wouldn't even think of doing such a thing."They stared at each other, and again Lupin didn't break eye contact. Severus would almost have faltered, when he saw Lupin frown suddenly, his eyes piercing, as if looking right through Severus. And he did look through him, right inside of him, Severus was sure of that. He felt it. "I'm sorry," Lupin said again, quietly, ruefully. "Please, forgive me. I have no other words than these."Severus had enough of his apologies. He couldn't bear the laughter. He had built himself a high, thick wall of respect and fear so no one would laugh at him ever again and now it had been run in. Several bricks lay scattered at his feet and he was too exhausted to pick them up and put them back where they belonged. But he would have to do it to shield himself from the laughter. And when he looked around, he saw the laughter in all their eyes, felt the laughter of the students behind the thick stone walls, and remembered the laughter of his own schoolmates from twenty years ago. Everyone was laughing at him again. But Lupin … Lupin wasn't laughing. Had never laughed at Severus.Severus relinquished his grip on his wand. Suddenly, all the fury he felt drained from his body like water from a bathtub. He couldn't help but believe Lupin's words, and as much as he tried to hold on to the anger, all that he was left with was a familiar, dull ache. He wouldn't forgive Lupin but he couldn't feel angry anymore, either. It gave him some satisfaction, though, that the werewolf seemed to be suffering, too. Without another word, without another look at Lupin, Severus strode from the room, unable to bear the eyes of his colleagues on him. He had not hexed the werewolf. He congratulated himself on his self-control. His anger had been big enough to kill him. But he had stopped killing in earnest. He had always hated it. It had made him sick. He just wanted his pure anger back now because he couldn't bear the feelings it had covered.So instead of dwelling on his inner turmoil, Severus pondered the expression he had produced on Lupin's face. It had been fleeting, gone in an instant, but it had definitely been there. And he realised that he'd been wrong about one thing: it was not the self-confidence that made Lupin intriguing, it was what he was hiding underneath it. And the fact that he was hiding something at all. Of course Severus was fascinated by the way Lupin wouldn't back down, but it was even more interesting to find out that there was more to him than that calm face and that friendly smile. Severus wanted to know what else was hidden behind those golden eyes. And the challenge of finding a way to peel off that mask of his excited Severus. And then there was the fact that they had something in common: the masks they wore, different as they might be on the outside, to shield themselves from the world.Severus stopped and leant against the cold stone wall, rubbing his neck as he closed his eyes. It was impossible to fight this feeling. Severus's curiosity had grown so much he could not ignore or deny it. He wanted to see those amber eyes flooded with emotion again, wanted to hear Lupin's usually warm voice heated and frozen, and what he wanted most of all was to hear the sound of that husky chuckle once more – though he wasn't quite ready to admit that even to himself. There was this fascination with Lupin that devoured his ill feelings. And frustration turned into eagerness. What would he have to do to make Lupin reveal his other faces? How many were there? Who was that man, if he had ceased to be the boy Severus had known? Severus felt an almost irresistible urge to find out. And at the same time he wished that he would never have to see him again, to look into his eyes and find, perhaps, the mirth he had not found today. Why that bothered him, Severus was not sure. But he was sure that, if Lupin were to leave now, he would spend the rest of his days being devoured by curiosity about him.The remaining lessons of the day were spent suffocating even the tiniest sniggers immediately, now that Severus knew what they were about. He did not want to allow anybody to enjoy themselves at his expense even for one more second. At dinner, Severus did not meet Lupin's eyes. The staff no longer talked about the Boggart incident, at least not in his presence, and McGonagall talked to him in rather light tones. Lupin had the sense not to talk to him at all, but somehow Severus's fascination gave way to the wish of getting away from him anyway. Lupin's presence made him uncomfortable today. When Severus looked at him he could not muster any anger. And he didn't want to feel the things that he usually masked with anger. He thought for a moment that Lupin might find this side of Severus quite as interesting as Severus had found Lupin's earlier. But he just didn't want to expose himself to Lupin. Which did make him angry again when he was on his way back to the dungeons.As he entered his office, Severus was relieved to be alone for once. He sighed and passed a hand over his face, trying to brush off the after-effects of this exhausting day. For a few moments he felt the humiliation burning in him again, but then he managed to shake it off with an effort and decided to get some work done before turning in, to distract his mind and busy it with something other than the Boggart-Severus to think about before going to bed. But when he walked round his desk, he was taken aback by something lying on it. Startled, he noticed that it was the packet of sweets that Lupin had wanted to give him before lunch. Licorice ravens. An annoying swooping sensation filled Severus's stomach. What was that doing here? Severus picked up the packet and found a note lying underneath it. As he looked at it, he saw that it was written in quite an untidy hand. He squinted at it and deciphered the words with difficulty.A peace offering. And as he turned the note around, he found another sentence written on the back:But I swear I really only meant to be nice in the first place. (Please accept it this time.)Severus stared at it and couldn't quite believe his eyes. Then he snorted and turned first the note then the packet in his hands. He could detect no trap and after a moment's consideration he squashed the urge to throw them into the fire. He thought that he deserved this, that Lupin's money, as little as he had, was well invested in sweets for him. It was only the first installment of the payback Lupin owed him. It was by far not enough. But as Severus prised open the packet of licorice ravens, he thought that he could live with the taste of Lupin's debt and the consistency of his guilt. And he could hate him in peace in his rooms that night, eating the ravens, that desperately flapped their wings as he popped them into his mouth with indecent enjoyment. Of course he would never admit that to Lupin, and he wondered what the werewolf would say if he knew. It was definitely worthwhile to accept Lupin's apologies. Especially if they were made of licorice every time.

	Title: Fortune's Might
	Title:
	 Fortune's Might
	Pairing: SS/RL
	Pairing:
	Disclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.
	Disclaimer
	Author's Note: Thanks for the great reviews, everybody! Chase'sGirl19, it's so nice to read that the work I put into this story is noticed and appreciated, thanks! Welcome back, Kiraling and Resevius, this is starting to feel like a get-together of old friends :).
	Author's Note
	
	Lesson Four: Olive Branch
	Lesson Four: Olive Branch
	It was Friday. Usually on Fridays Severus was rather less unpleasant than on the other days of the week, for it meant the end of the week and the start of some pleasant alone time in his rooms without disturbances. He would just have to endure a few more hours in the company of noisy Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs before sweet redemption allowed him to retreat to his sitting room or his lab and to shut out everybody he did not want to see. Today this also meant that he could finally leave behind Lupin, for not even the werewolf could enter his rooms without permission, and even if the staffroom and Severus's office were not safe, Severus's private space was a werewolf-free zone.
	The rest of the castle, on the other hand, seemed to be much less so. Even when the werewolf wasn't present, Severus had the impression that everybody was whispering Lupin's name as he walked to breakfast. Severus wondered what the werewolf could have done to suddenly be on everyone's lips but almost at once this curiosity was squashed by the annoyance caused by several groups of students who seemed to be looking furtively at him as they talked quietly together and started to snigger when he looked round at them. That was not the effect he usually achieved by glaring at the children. All through breakfast Severus had the impression that the students and even the staff were casting him amused glances, but nobody told him what the joke was or let him overhear their whispered conversations. This seemed to be yet another thing that the whole castle knew while he was kept in the dark.
	Somehow Severus had an ominous feeling and looked down the table to see if Lupin appeared to know anything about it, but the werewolf wasn't there at all. Remembering that Lupin had told him he was a late riser, Severus huffed and glowered into the Hall, challenging all those people to tell him what was going on. But even when he left for his first lesson he was no wiser, though the Ravenclaw and Hufflepuff fifth-years behaved in the same mysterious way during their double-Potions class. He handed gave a student detention for a burst of laughter that positively appalled him, and took several points from the many students who were whispering Lupin's name while telling a story that he was apparently not to know.
	He felt like a fool when the children left his dungeon for lunch, and when he made his way upstairs, too, a little while later, he racked his brains trying to figure out what exactly could have happened to make the whole school so giddy. He was late for lunch, and when he reached the Entrance Hall it was deserted but for a single man, entering through the open front doors, laden with shopping bags. Severus stopped and looked round at him, recognising Lupin at once. He was wearing a smile and humming to himself as his amber eyes found Severus and he inclined his head, walking towards him in a slight curve.
	"Hello, Severus," he said pleasantly, shaking his hair out of his eyes with the same nonchalant jerk of the head that Severus had seen yesterday. "I hope you are well? No exploded cauldrons today?"
	Severus sneered at him and eyed the shopping bags as Lupin came to a halt not quite too close to him. "Where have you been, Lupin?" he asked silkily. He tried not to sound too interested, but he could not deny that he was curious. "Does the Headmaster pay you to go shopping during teaching hours?"
	"I had a free period and used it to go into Hogsmeade," said Lupin mildly, turning the bags for Severus to see the Honeydukes logo. "I had to stock up on chocolate. Quite a few younger children are having difficulties with the Dementors and, personally, I prefer to carry some chocolate around with me at all times, just in case. Also bought some Toothflossing Springmints while I was at it. I felt like a boy again when I walked into Honeydukes with my pockets full of gold for a change."
	Lupin looked more like the boy he had been as he said this, his eyes were twinkling golden and his smile was different once again, exhilarated. Severus narrowed his eyes at him. "You used your first salary to buy sweets instead of a new set of robes?" he asked with a sneer.
	"I also bought other things," said Lupin, still smiling, "like quills, ink, and parchment at Scrivenshafts. And I looked into Derwish and Banges. I found I have grown just a little too old for Zonko's, though. And to be quite frank with you, I don't care if my robes are handsome or not, looks are a mere illusion, they wither with time. Chocolate on the other hand …" He trailed off and shrugged with a contented chuckle. Severus tried to suppress a shiver but couldn't. If anything, the huskiness had increased since yesterday and Severus supposed the long walk from Hogsmeade through the cold air was at fault.
	Lupin gave him a curious look, his brow slightly creased but his smile unwaveringly in place, and Severus scowled back at him, wondering if Lupin thought that his looks were only an illusion, too, and that underneath them Severus was quite a cuddly guy. Lupin should know better. But there was something careful in Lupin's gaze, something searching that made Severus suspicious again. Maybe Lupin wondered if Severus had heard what everybody was sniggering about. When Lupin was finally satisfied as to Severus's ignorance or whatever he had been looking for, he reached into one of his bags and rummaged for a moment.
	"I have something here … Minerva – Merlin, it's still strange to call her that – she told me that you like them," he muttered, and to Severus's utter surprise he pulled from the bag a packet of licorice ravens from Honeydukes. He held them out to Severus and smiled quite broadly, cocking his head to one side. Severus stared at him and wondered if he had lost his mind.
	"What do you mean by this?" he asked crossly, and Lupin's eyebrows elevated again, like they had done several times before.
	"I mean to be nice," he replied simply and stubbornly held the sweets out to him.
	"If you believe that I will accept anything you want to give me you are more of a fool than I thought," spat Severus and pulled his eyes away from Lupin, striding across the Hall to have lunch and leaving Lupin behind. The werewolf did not call him back, did not follow him. And he did not appear at lunch. Severus was outraged. Lupin was acting as though they were friends, as though everything was forgiven and forgotten. But Severus would never forgive and he certainly would not forget. If the werewolf thought that he could change Severus's mind by acting as though he was interested in him or that he could twist him around his finger by "being nice", he was barking up the wrong tree. Or rather howling. Severus smirked to himself as he for once didn't pay attention to the whispers and the sniggers that seemed to be revolving not only around Lupin but also around him.
	But when he left the Great Hall for his free period, he noticed it again: the sniggering, the pointing, the whispered conversations. And still no member of staff seemed to be meeting his eye or giving him the chance to talk to them long enough to inquire after that apparently funny story. But Severus would find out. Settling down in the armchair in the staffroom, Severus made himself quite invisible and waited for his prey. Someone would come whom he could corner and ask what was going on. He didn't have to wait long until McGonagall and Vector entered, talking animatedly. They hadn't noticed him yet, so he kept silent in his armchair, straining his ears to catch their conversation.
	"I still can't quite believe it, that Lupin's really something," said Vector and Severus was sure that he was lucky this time. They must be talking about whatever he wasn't supposed to know. "Hilarious. To think –! I wish I had been there."
	"Don't you let Severus hear that!" said McGonagall warningly and now it was plain that what Severus had feared was true. "Remus didn't come to breakfast this morning for a reason. He meant to apologise to Severus but I doubt that Severus even knows yet. Remus wasn't at lunch, either, in case you hadn't noticed."
	"I think he'd do better to avoid Severus for a while," said Vector and there was amusement in her voice. "Or it might just end in bloodshed. Severus already seems to hate him."
	"That is the precise reason why Remus was so eager to speak to Severus about the matter," said McGonagall seriously, "in private, he said. Personally, I recommended witnesses."
	This made Severus even more curious. What could Lupin have done that would make Severus dislike him even more? What in Merlin's name had happened that was such a big deal? And why had the werewolf done it at all if he got cold feet now? He had seemed rather normal when Severus had met him in the Entrance Hall earlier. But he had brought him sweets and said he wanted to be nice. Was this regret? Penitence? Had he wanted to make up for something? He had looked as though he was searching Severus for something. Perhaps he had wanted to find out if Severus knew what he had done. But if he really wanted to apologise for something why had he not done it, there in the deserted Entrance Hall? Perhaps he wanted to avoid a confrontation.
	McGonagall sighed as she sat down at the table, but Vector was grinning. "Come on, that Lupin has a good sense of humor!" Vector said, and Severus froze. "I haven't had such a good laugh since Dumbledore dyed his own beard pink years ago."
	They both chuckled and Severus didn't like it at all. "Well," McGonagall said finally. "I'm sure he didn't mean it as a joke. He said it was a spontaneous idea. But then again, what was he expecting? Of course the whole school would laugh their heads off at that! Maybe it was a bout of insanity that overcame him. In any case, it was either really brave or suicidal, sticking Severus's Boggart replica into Augusta Longbottom's dress. I heard that there was lace on it on top of everything."
	Severus felt as though somebody had plunged him in a pool of ice water. His brain tried to process this information and was still not done when anger was already bubbling up in Severus's stomach. Lupin had dared put him in an old woman's dress? He didn't even realise at that moment that he had not really been wearing a dress, it was insubstantial to him that it had been a Boggart, he felt humiliated in an instant, ill-treated, abused, violated! As though Lupin had really used magic to transform his robes into a dress and have the whole school laugh at him. No matter that only the Gryffindor third-years had seen it, the whole school knew and their imaginations were worse even than reality could have been.
	dared
	dress
	Severus got slowly to his feet, his hands balled into shaking fists, and as he turned to the two witches they noticed him and their faces fell in shock, which would have been quite a funny sight had Severus not been fuming with anger that he did not want to let out – not because he thought that those two didn't deserve to be subjected to it, but because he wanted to save it all for Lupin. Severus glared at McGonagall, for he found himself unable to even look at Vector, who had been so amused by his public ridicule.
	"He has done what?" hissed Severus and his voice was shaking slightly as he suppressed the fury that was tearing at his throat.
	what
	McGonagall exchanged a guilty look with Vector and cleared her throat. "Severus, I didn't notice you at all," she said. "Well, apparently you are Longbottom's Boggart, so Remus had to improvise when he had the Gryffindor third-years tackle one yesterday. I take it you hadn't heard yet?"
	"Why, my colleagues made sure of that, did they not?" he pressed, feeling the blood pulsing furiously through his veins. "And your beloved Lupin didn't have the guts to tell me about it personally. Oh, but he is probably enjoying himself thoroughly at my expense. He is probably proud that he managed to make a fool of me in his first week here!"
	guts
	enjoying
	proud
	"Oh, don't be silly, Severus," said McGonagall gruffly and now Severus couldn't even look at her anymore. He saw the amusement on her face, he saw the hidden laughter in her eyes. It was nauseating. "You're exaggerating as usual. He didn't mean anything by it. It was only a Boggart."
	"Only a Boggart? Only a – it was me nonetheless!" snapped Severus and turned his back on them, wondering whether he should stay or leave. Now that he knew what everybody was sniggering about, he almost didn't dare leave this secluded place anymore. He did not want to go out there and hear them laughing at him. He wanted to Obliviate the whole castle. How could he live peacefully if he knew that everybody was laughing at him because of this dress business. McGonagall did not understand. Nobody could. It was as though Severus was hoisted up by the ankle again, in front of dozens of laughing students. His stomach churned. He was furious just so he didn't have to give in to humiliation and embarrassment, his old acquaintances. If he could only lay hands on Lupin now, witnesses or not, he would –
	it was me nonetheless
	But at that very moment the door opened and a few of his colleagues entered the room, Lupin among them, wearing his usual smile, his hands in his pockets, and that tiredly nonchalant air about him enraged Severus even more. But as he caught sight of Severus, he stopped in his tracks and his smile slipped off his face. It was the first time that he seemed seriously uncomfortable in Severus's presence and Severus knew now that it was guilt that caused this change in him. The knowledge that he had done something wrong. He was aware that Severus had found out about the Boggart, other than before lunch in the Entrance Hall he did not act as though nothing had happened. It was as though he had waited for Severus to find out and was now ready to accept his wrath as punishment.
	"You!" said Severus in a dangerous whisper, but in spite of Severus's murderous fury, Lupin stepped forward and held up his hands to pacify him.
	"Listen, Severus," he said in that calm, hoarse voice which only made Severus angrier, "I know you must be upset, but if you just let me explain, I'm sure we can sort this out –"
	"You want to explain?" asked Severus in a deadly voice and Lupin frowned. "What is there to explain? You thought you wanted a good laugh and there I was, the perfect victim for your idle enjoyment. How dare you ridicule me? How dare you make me the laughing-stock of the whole school? Who do you think you are?"
	Who do you think you are
	"Please, Severus, I didn't mean to do any such thing," replied Lupin quietly, looking quite stricken. "I had no intention to hurt you in any way, I simply failed to consider the consequences of my actions. I couldn't have known that you are what Neville fears most, I was surprised and needed a quick solution, that is all. Laughter is what finishes a Boggart, so I had to think of a way to –"
	"To ridicule me!" spat Severus and found that that was proof enough of the fact that Lupin had indeed meant to make fun of him. It was most impertinent of him to deny it. He was aware of the fact that, though the rest of the staff were pretending not to be listening, they were all glancing furtively at them both. And they were on Lupin's side, no doubt.
	"Well, yes and no," conceded Lupin reluctantly and he seemed rather troubled now, "you weren't even present, it was a Boggart, not you personally. I was only thinking of Neville at that moment, I did not think of anything else. Frankly, I found it more important to bolster his self-confidence than to worry about what that Boggart would mean to you. I see now that it was a mistake to exchange Neville's success for your dignity, but I assure you that it wasn't my intention to take it from you in the first place. I wasn't thinking –"
	"Well, that doesn't surprise me," snapped Severus and his hand was closing over his wand in his pocket. He wanted to hex Lupin, here and now, make him sprout something nasty and hilarious-looking so he would know what it felt like to be laughed at. Lupin had always been under somebody's protection, he had no idea how Severus was feeling. His empty words changed nothing. "You are always only thinking of yourself! First you come here and take my job away from me, then you go and steal my time with your bloody Potion, and now you pay me back for it like this?"
	that
	Lupin looked so guilty now that it gave Severus some satisfaction. He looked as though he was about to confess a horrid murder that had haunted him for ages. "I am sorry," he said and sounded genuinely regretful, though Severus was not sure whether anything Lupin did or said was genuine. "But what should I have done? I had already let Neville know that he was playing a big part in the lesson. Should I have told him that he would simply have to avoid Boggarts altogether because you are his greatest fear?"
	"Sounds like a better solution than putting me into a blasted dress!" Severus was speaking quite loudly now, quite involuntarily so. Nobody else affected him like this. His anger was bursting out of him to throw itself at Lupin and attack him, but the werewolf did not back off, he was standing his ground. It was frustrating that he didn't even flinch. Severus wondered savagely if he would flinch should he feel Severus's bare hands round his neck.
	Lupin heaved a heavy sigh. "Like I said, I am sorry and I fear there is nothing more I can say," he replied calmly, shaking his head, and the grey in his hair caught the sunlight and glittered fetchingly. Severus was momentarily distracted. "But what's done is done, and it can't be changed. I did not mean to make fun of you or to upset you, not to speak of seeming ungrateful. I can only express my regret and hope you will forgive me."
	Severus had listened, but felt no better. They were hollow words in his ears. They didn't change anything. Lupin was right, the act of ridiculing Severus could not be undone and it was almost agonising to Severus to think of it. Lupin's apology meant nothing. It didn't erase anyone's memory or mental picture of Severus in a dress. It didn't stop anyone laughing. And Severus knew they were laughing. All of them. And even though Severus enjoyed having Lupin at his mercy, he couldn't shut out the laughter in his ears. It was there all the time. Haunting him. But Lupin …
	"That doesn't change the fact that you made a fool of me," hissed Severus and Lupin lowered his eyes to the floor for a moment of weakness. When he raised them again, his eyes were still placid. There seemed to be an unwavering calm in him that Severus wanted to destroy. Severus caught Vector's eye and found her trying to suppress a smirk, surely at the renewed idea of him in a lacey dress, and he just wanted to vanish into the ground. He knew he was still flushed but he would not show his colleagues what he felt. He wanted Lupin to reveal what he felt. "Thought you'd carry on where your glorious friends left off, did you, Lupin? Thought that you'd go to new lengths to humiliate me, pull off something all new and unforgettable in their memory?"
	he
	And there it was. The effect. Not as obvious as he had wished for it to be, but it was there. Lupin staggered. Not physically, but behind his amber eyes Severus saw the short flicker of an expression of shock and shame. And it was fascinating. As if after years and years of exhausting research he had finally succeeded in brewing the most magnificent new potion and solved an ancient problem. It made him feel triumphant and gleeful and it let him forget the laughter. And then it was gone. Replaced by Lupin's usual unaffected expression. And suddenly Severus knew what made the werewolf so different from the boy he had been: it was this mask that he donned to hide behind.
	"Don't accuse me of something as shameful as that," the werewolf said, his voice suddenly cold. "I wouldn't even think of doing such a thing."
	They stared at each other, and again Lupin didn't break eye contact. Severus would almost have faltered, when he saw Lupin frown suddenly, his eyes piercing, as if looking right through Severus. And he did look through him, right inside of him, Severus was sure of that. He felt it. "I'm sorry," Lupin said again, quietly, ruefully. "Please, forgive me. I have no other words than these."
	Severus had enough of his apologies. He couldn't bear the laughter. He had built himself a high, thick wall of respect and fear so no one would laugh at him ever again and now it had been run in. Several bricks lay scattered at his feet and he was too exhausted to pick them up and put them back where they belonged. But he would have to do it to shield himself from the laughter. And when he looked around, he saw the laughter in all their eyes, felt the laughter of the students behind the thick stone walls, and remembered the laughter of his own schoolmates from twenty years ago. Everyone was laughing at him again. But Lupin … Lupin wasn't laughing. Had never laughed at Severus.
	Severus relinquished his grip on his wand. Suddenly, all the fury he felt drained from his body like water from a bathtub. He couldn't help but believe Lupin's words, and as much as he tried to hold on to the anger, all that he was left with was a familiar, dull ache. He wouldn't forgive Lupin but he couldn't feel angry anymore, either. It gave him some satisfaction, though, that the werewolf seemed to be suffering, too. Without another word, without another look at Lupin, Severus strode from the room, unable to bear the eyes of his colleagues on him. He had not hexed the werewolf. He congratulated himself on his self-control. His anger had been big enough to kill him. But he had stopped killing in earnest. He had always hated it. It had made him sick. He just wanted his pure anger back now because he couldn't bear the feelings it had covered.
	So instead of dwelling on his inner turmoil, Severus pondered the expression he had produced on Lupin's face. It had been fleeting, gone in an instant, but it had definitely been there. And he realised that he'd been wrong about one thing: it was not the self-confidence that made Lupin intriguing, it was what he was hiding underneath it. And the fact that he was hiding something at all. Of course Severus was fascinated by the way Lupin wouldn't back down, but it was even more interesting to find out that there was more to him than that calm face and that friendly smile. Severus wanted to know what else was hidden behind those golden eyes. And the challenge of finding a way to peel off that mask of his excited Severus. And then there was the fact that they had something in common: the masks they wore, different as they might be on the outside, to shield themselves from the world.
	Severus stopped and leant against the cold stone wall, rubbing his neck as he closed his eyes. It was impossible to fight this feeling. Severus's curiosity had grown so much he could not ignore or deny it. He wanted to see those amber eyes flooded with emotion again, wanted to hear Lupin's usually warm voice heated and frozen, and what he wanted most of all was to hear the sound of that husky chuckle once more – though he wasn't quite ready to admit that even to himself. There was this fascination with Lupin that devoured his ill feelings. And frustration turned into eagerness. What would he have to do to make Lupin reveal his other faces? How many were there? Who was that man, if he had ceased to be the boy Severus had known? Severus felt an almost irresistible urge to find out. And at the same time he wished that he would never have to see him again, to look into his eyes and find, perhaps, the mirth he had not found today. Why that bothered him, Severus was not sure. But he was sure that, if Lupin were to leave now, he would spend the rest of his days being devoured by curiosity about him.
	The remaining lessons of the day were spent suffocating even the tiniest sniggers immediately, now that Severus knew what they were about. He did not want to allow anybody to enjoy themselves at his expense even for one more second. At dinner, Severus did not meet Lupin's eyes. The staff no longer talked about the Boggart incident, at least not in his presence, and McGonagall talked to him in rather light tones. Lupin had the sense not to talk to him at all, but somehow Severus's fascination gave way to the wish of getting away from him anyway. Lupin's presence made him uncomfortable today. When Severus looked at him he could not muster any anger. And he didn't want to feel the things that he usually masked with anger. He thought for a moment that Lupin might find this side of Severus quite as interesting as Severus had found Lupin's earlier. But he just didn't want to expose himself to Lupin. Which did make him angry again when he was on his way back to the dungeons.
	As he entered his office, Severus was relieved to be alone for once. He sighed and passed a hand over his face, trying to brush off the after-effects of this exhausting day. For a few moments he felt the humiliation burning in him again, but then he managed to shake it off with an effort and decided to get some work done before turning in, to distract his mind and busy it with something other than the Boggart-Severus to think about before going to bed. But when he walked round his desk, he was taken aback by something lying on it. Startled, he noticed that it was the packet of sweets that Lupin had wanted to give him before lunch. Licorice ravens. An annoying swooping sensation filled Severus's stomach. What was that doing here? Severus picked up the packet and found a note lying underneath it. As he looked at it, he saw that it was written in quite an untidy hand. He squinted at it and deciphered the words with difficulty.
	A peace offering. 
	A peace offering. 
	And as he turned the note around, he found another sentence written on the back:
	But I swear I really only meant to be nice in the first place. (Please accept it this time.)
	But I swear I really only meant to be nice in the first place. (Please accept it this time.)
	Severus stared at it and couldn't quite believe his eyes. Then he snorted and turned first the note then the packet in his hands. He could detect no trap and after a moment's consideration he squashed the urge to throw them into the fire. He thought that he deserved this, that Lupin's money, as little as he had, was well invested in sweets for him. It was only the first installment of the payback Lupin owed him. It was by far not enough. But as Severus prised open the packet of licorice ravens, he thought that he could live with the taste of Lupin's debt and the consistency of his guilt. And he could hate him in peace in his rooms that night, eating the ravens, that desperately flapped their wings as he popped them into his mouth with indecent enjoyment. Of course he would never admit that to Lupin, and he wondered what the werewolf would say if he knew. It was definitely worthwhile to accept Lupin's apologies. Especially if they were made of licorice every time.
	
Title: Fortune's MightPairing: SS/RLDisclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.Author's Note: With this chapter I think I've achieved what I wanted: to make it more believable in every respect. One of my favourites from the original. Looking forward to everybody's opinion. And thanks for your unwavering support JJ, I always love to read what you think :).Lesson Five: Water Under The BridgeOver the following days, Severus discovered that it was by far easier to hate the werewolf and nourish his anger at him in peace when he wasn't present. This encouraged him to avoid Lupin best he could, though it was rather harder than he would have liked with the werewolf trying to talk to him whenever it was possible. Severus had lost no word about the peace offering, and Lupin had not inquired. He seemed to be glad that Severus hadn't chucked it at his head the morning after finding it in his office. And, Severus supposed in discomfort, Lupin seemed to have looked through him again and found somewhere inside him the licorice ravens, that he had eaten with some inappropriate relish, as though they were Lupin's guilt solidified. But since Lupin had gone back to his usual unaffected, friendly behaviour, Severus had lost some of his satisfaction.Whenever anybody mentioned Lupin's name Severus would feel a flare of fury rise up inside him and direct his most menacing glare at the person who had uttered it. But as he didn't have a chance to bully or humiliate Lupin in front of the students or their fellow teachers – due to his resolution to avoid him – he needed to revenge himself on a substitute. And who would be better suited than that dunderhead Longbottom? So Severus took to bullying him worse than ever in Lupin's stead, who would probably not have done Severus the favour of letting himself be bullied anyway. It was partly the boy's fault, too, after all, that the whole school was still talking about that Boggart incident.This strategy had another advantage: seeing that the boy he had wanted to help was now suffering from his mistake made Lupin's guilt grow immeasurably. One day Severus saw Lupin's brow so creased that he knew the werewolf was going to do something about it. He was prepared for a decent row, but was disappointed when Lupin decided to talk to the boy rather than his tormentor. His strategy was apology once again, not confrontation. He was taking responsibility and very Gryffindorishly so. Severus found him standing in the Great Hall with Longbottom, beside the giant hourglasses, when he ascended the narrow staircase leading to his office to have dinner. He stopped in the shadows to eavesdrop."… heard that Professor Snape is giving you an especially hard time these days and I feel responsible," Lupin was saying in that mild voice of his, giving Longbottom a look of guilty sympathy. As though he knew how it was to be bullied. But he had no idea. "I want to apologise for getting you in such trouble. I would talk to Professor Snape if I didn't think that it would only make things worse. He – ah – isn't exactly fond of me."And how right he was. Severus smirked to himself and was satisfied that Lupin had at least realised that his words did not impress Severus. On the other hand, Severus would have been interested in that conversation, wondering if Lupin was more affected when it wasn't him who was the victim of Severus's bullying but a student. It might have been worthwhile to discuss this with Lupin. Alas, the werewolf was too sensible. And he would probably just have frustrated Severus as usual."If there is anything I can do for you," Lupin went on but Longbottom shook his head, and to Severus's surprise, he was smiling."I liked the lesson, Professor," he said and seemed much more confident than Severus had ever seen him, "it was the first time I really felt like I wasn't the worst at something to do with a wand. It was a good feeling. Professor Snape has been bullying me forever, I suppose worse than bad is still just bad – and it was worth it. So, I'll be fine. Thanks, Professor Lupin."Severus rolled his eyes at such sickening Gryffindor sentimentality when Lupin put on an expression of mingled worry and pride. It was like in one of those Witch Weekly photograph stories. Not that he had ever read one of those! He couldn't help it if Vector left the magazine lying around open in the staffroom."Well, if you are sure … you know, I think that with some encouragement and patience you will discover that there is very much more hidden inside you still. I believe that nobody ever took the time to look for it properly," said Lupin and together they walked to dinner still talking but their voices were drowned by those of the chattering students that were now starting to fill the Hall. Severus was sure, though, that the rest of their conversation would revolve around Longbottom's nonexistent hidden potential. If that was the aptitude for teaching that Albus and McGonagall had been talking about, Severus agreed that very few of the staff possessed it. But he did not want it.What he wanted was the peace that he had never realised was present in the castle only when Lupin was not there. Never had he noticed that there was a calm at Hogwarts that Lupin disturbed violently. Though Severus had effectively reduced the laughing and scared everybody so thoroughly of using Lupin's name in his presence that he had restored a certain amount of quiet around himself, he still felt as though he would only rest peacefully again when Lupin was gone. Sometimes when he strode through the corridors he still saw a small grin or heard a stifled snicker – which he would both punish with a week's detention at least! – but mostly he seemed to only imagine people laughing at him when they were actually laughing about something else. Severus blamed this paranoia on Lupin. His indignation was such that, since the frightened rumour had spread that Severus could read minds, nobody really dared to even remember the Boggart story anymore, for fear of detentions too vindictive to even imagine."Please stop sulking, Severus," Albus said at dinner as Severus's eyes drifted malignantly into Lupin's direction. "No harm has been done. Remus has apologised. Behave like a grown-up and let the matter rest."Severus glared at him. He wondered if he'd still say that if it had been him in the dress with the vulture-topped hat. But then again, Albus would probably have found it very funny indeed even if it had been him. Severus sighed. But Albus didn't have a reputation to lose."'No harm done'," Severus repeated between clenched teeth, "maybe not to you. But they are still laughing behind my back."Albus shook his head, smiling slightly. "Ah, Severus, if anything their fear of you has increased," he said quietly, "just yesterday I overheard two first-years talking about you as though you were Lord Voldemort himself – You-Know-Who, they said – and they seemed quite frightened indeed of their next lesson with you. I doubt if some laughter can scratch your iron defence. You are placing too much importance on it. Remus did not mean to cause you trouble, he just had an ingenious idea that was too precious to waste. And he helped an insecure boy discover his capabilities."Severus scowled at him. Why did everybody talk about Lupin as though he had done something great, something to be admired? Why did nobody care that Severus was the victim, that he had been humiliated? Albus couldn't possibly believe that it was that easy to just leave this behind. When Severus didn't answer, Albus watched him poking his chicken for a while before folding his hands on the table and drawing breath to continue. Severus rolled his eyes."Maybe such a comic relief was due," he said and Severus gave him a scandalised look. "Now the students who have always been cowering before you know that you are just human, too, and that there is somebody who dares treat you like just another man, not like Severus Snape the intimidating Potions master. It was instructive. It will be far easier for them to study under you and learn what you have to teach them. I have always said that the hilarious effect of imagining somebody you fear in a lacy dress and a funny hat helps you immensely to keep a cool head. I am sure that Neville Longbottom, at least, has profited in more than one way from Remus's inadvertent joke."It was impossible for Severus to put into words how incensed he was. He could only stare at Albus and wonder at his impertinence. Inadvertent, as if! Lupin had at least had the decency to pretend he was sorry and hadn't meant to make Severus a laughing stock. Albus's appreciation of Lupin's deed was, however, plain, unprecedented disrespect in Severus's eyes."And you think that that is a positive outcome?" asked Severus incredulously and eyed Albus as though he had gone mad."Oh, yes, Severus," replied Albus, returning to his own chicken, "we are, after all, a school, where it is most important to teach children effectively and provide a comfortable working climate. Speaking of which, the staff are far more relaxed around you, too, now that they know that the limit of your tolerance cannot even be reached by putting you in a dress. I daresay you will find many of them stopping to tiptoe around you. They seem to have realised that your bark is worse than your bite.""Be careful now, Dumbledore," growled Severus, who was gripping his fork so firmly that the gold cut into his fingers. "I might reconsider my decision to let Lupin live. I might –""Do not try to make me believe what I know to be empty threats," said Albus pleasantly, looking at him with twinkling blue eyes. "I recommended to your colleagues not to try anything like that themselves, for I believe that there is something about Remus that prevented you from reacting as viciously as you might have done, at least when face to face with him. I do not believe that anybody but Minerva or me would have got away as relatively unscathed as Remus, though you must know that your pain hurt Remus more than any revenge you could have planned for him would.""Pain," huffed Severus, averting his eyes, and stubbornly ignoring the bit about Lupin that had sounded all-too-true, "who said anything about pain?""Your eyes did," said Albus simply, and if he had seen so had Lupin, no doubt. "You are an excellent Occlumens, but hiding such feelings in your eyes when they overpower you suddenly is not one of your strong points."Severus didn't want to hear anything more about his weaknesses. He got up, leaving his dinner behind half-eaten. Albus did not call him back, he knew it was no good. While Severus was walking slowly through the deserted Entrance Hall, he thought about why he just couldn't seem to be able to deny that Lupin affected him in a way that was far too strong and unusual for him to just ignore. Albus was right, he would have hexed any other of his colleagues if they had put him in a dress, Boggart or not. But he had let Lupin off just like that. Why did Lupin have such an influence on him when Severus seemed to have none at all on the werewolf?"Severus, wait a moment," said a hoarse voice behind him and footsteps echoed through the Hall. Severus closed his eyes in dismay, wishing Lupin away. Now. But when he opened his eyes again and turned around, the werewolf was still approaching him, smiling mildly. Severus immediately turned on his heel and walked away from him, but instead of offending Lupin or making him go away, it only incited a husky chuckle. "Please, Severus, you can't shake me off, I'm more stubborn than you."Severus snorted despite himself and came to a halt at the stairs that led into the dungeons, giving in just so Lupin wouldn't follow him into his office or further. Severus would put nothing past him. "That remains to be seen," he said silkily, crossing his arms over his chest. "What do you want now, Lupin? You haven't done anything else to annoy me, have you? I'm not in a very forgiving mood.""Well, as far as I know you, I would say you never are," said Lupin, putting his hands in his pockets and cocking his head to one side as he chuckled again and forced that odd shiver through Severus's body. "No, I wanted to talk to you about a certain matter."Remembering the conversation with Longbottom earlier, Severus gave Lupin a look of mingled irritation and oddly eager expectation. "Why, is this going to be a 'you cannot treat me like this' talk?" he asked suspiciously and narrowed his eyes at Lupin, who raised his eyebrows, seemingly confused."What?" he said and the corners of his mouth twitched. "No, I have no complaints. Quite the contrary. This was going to be an 'I had not the slightest idea and am very sorry' kind of talk."It was Severus's turn to be confused. And his patience had not improved since the Boggart incident. "What the heck are you talking about?" he snapped and Lupin's amber eyes flickered away from his for a moment. He was standing at exactly the right distance once more, as though he knew how close he could come to Severus without being too close. Still, he was closer than he had ever been since arriving at Hogwarts. As Lupin shook his hair out of his eyes, Severus got a whiff of some sweet scent, but it was gone before Severus could analyse it."I mean that I did not know that you wanted the Defence job," said Lupin and his expression became somehow odd. In between amused and apologetic. "I had no idea. I am sorry that I have caused you so much displeasure, I believed it was simply my presence that annoyed you, but now I see that there are a few more things that don't agree with you.""Your presence certainly agrees least with me," retorted Severus and Lupin's lips twitched again. "Everybody knows that I want to teach Defence Against the Dark Arts. I have watched a dozen people get the post I wanted from the start. Even before you arrived here, everybody in this castle knew that we would not get along.""Maybe in this castle everybody knows," said Lupin thoughtfully, running his thumb slowly over his chin, "but I had not seen you for ages. You can believe me that I was unaware. Albus left me in the dark about a few things that he knew would make me uncomfortable.""Don't tell me it would have changed anything about your decision to come here, Lupin," said Severus disbelievingly and gave him a scathing look."I would have come here nonetheless, you are right," said Lupin gently as students started streaming out of the Great Hall, "but I would have been prepared. And I would have approached you differently. I just want you to know that I did not steal the job from you on purpose."Severus snorted and shook his head. "Forget it, Lupin, as you have noticed there are plenty of other reasons why your presence here causes me 'displeasure'," he sneered and turned away to descend the stairs. "Your company for instance. So, if you'll excuse me …"Lupin did not follow him but remained standing at the top of the stairs. After a few moments, he called after Severus. "I am glad you enjoyed the sweets, at least," he said and Severus turned to glare at him, but when his eyes had readjusted to the bright light in the Hall, Lupin had gone. Impertinent werewolf.Severus wanted to make Lupin angry for once, but fought down the urge to run after him and retort something. Though he felt a certain need to try and upset Lupin, to make him discard his calm demeanour, once again nothing he had said had offended Lupin. The werewolf's mask seemed to have strengthened and no snide remark could wipe the smile off his face or make the politeness crumble. This frustrated Severus so much that he felt affirmed in his decision to stay away from Lupin and hate him from afar, which, as he noticed, had a different, but nevertheless interesting effect on the werewolf.Whenever they came across each other over the following days, Lupin tried to talk to him, not just in the staffroom, or at meals, but in the corridors and the halls, even when they came across each other while patrolling at night. When there was no possibility to make it seem like a coincidence, Lupin was unabashed by his obvious attempts to cross Severus's path on purpose and make conversation. Sometimes he even caught up with Severus in the corridors or doubled back where he had come from when Severus passed him in the opposite direction, just to use the encounter to annoy Severus. Severus either ignored him or told him most eloquently ("Get lost!") that he was not interested in the slightest in talking to him about whichever topic. But he knew as well as Lupin that there was no way that he could avoid him forever. Which was probably why Lupin was being so relentlessly persistent, always in an indecently good mood, never taking offence when Severus shook him off. After a while, Severus started to think that it was a game for Lupin. And he was winning.Though Severus never answered Lupin's questions, he was aware by now that the werewolf was interested in him, or pretended to be. He asked questions exclusively about Severus's habits and interests, his opinions and attitudes, his likes and dislikes, his past and his life in general. Severus supposed that some of those questions were answered more or less accurately by the rest of the staff, with whom Lupin got along very well. He had now had tea with Albus, Flitwick, and McGonagall, and Severus had seen him with Hagrid in the grounds. The only person apart from Severus who still didn't want anything to do with him was Filch. Lupin fitted in well with the other teachers and seemed to make good enough company. At least there was more laughter in the staffroom when he was there, more rapt silence among the teachers when he spoke. Severus loathed him all the more for his likability. He wasn't fooled. And he was determined not to give the werewolf the satisfaction of allowing closer contact.But again he knew that one thing would force him to allow at least closer professional contact. As the end of September drew nearer, so did the first full moon of term. This was a bitter prospect, since it meant tolerating Lupin in his office when he wished they were living on different planets altogether. The timing was inconvenient, too, since Severus had felt a definite increase in the frequency and strength of the shivers Lupin incited in him. Those husky chuckles were hell. As were those penetrating amber eyes, and to top it all off, Severus had noticed that sweet scent about Lupin again that he could never get to inhale deeply enough to find out what it was. Severus tried not to get too close to Lupin for frustration was now coming from all sides and to all senses, and still Lupin's smiles were staunch and the twitching of his lips was mysterious and his mask was in place and seemingly unbreakable. And it was still intriguing, even more so than it was irritating, though Severus would not admit it.Severus spent most of his waking moments cursing the werewolf in every thinkable and unthinkable way, but it didn't seem to be working: the werewolf's health improved instead of declining, and he seemed more satisfied by the day, not to speak of the vast majority of students who had named him their favourite teacher. Severus's mind was so preoccupied with the werewolf, in too many unwanted ways, that he just needed to distract himself. So he took a walk round the lake in the evening to let go of the most annoying or bothering events of the day before turning in. The waxing moon was shining brightly already, and it made the grass gleam and the water of the lake look like a giant mirror. When he had concluded his round, he sat down on the stone steps before the castle with a weary sigh and gazed over the grounds. It was late and he had wished for Black to wander into his field of vision, but no madman was to be seen anywhere. Fate didn't even grant him that little satisfaction.It had rained earlier today and the grass and the trees and the stone of the castle were still damp. The air was full of that scent. The scent that would rise from the moist soil and stone, filling the nose like the fumes of a potion. It was as if he could see the scent, hanging in the air like fog, smelling of all the things one usually didn't notice. Soil and stone spread their specific odours that could be clearly distinguished from the smell of the wet grass, and from far away a light breeze brought the Forest's very own fragrance to Severus's nose. He inhaled deeply, eyes closed, feeling calm and relaxed, and thought –"A wonderful scent."Severus opened his eyes in surprise and whirled round to face the source of the mild voice. Lupin was standing behind him a little to his right, smiling, his gaze wandering over the grounds. Severus stared at him. He hadn't heard Lupin coming and suddenly he felt rather vulnerable without his wand in immediate reach. The scent of the rain had made him grow careless. What if Black had –"Don't you think, Severus?" the werewolf interrupted his thoughts and Severus noticed that Lupin was suddenly looking down at him, meeting his gaze with his amber eyes which were gleaming in the moonlight. Severus didn't answer. He felt a jolt in his stomach and looked away, giving in to Lupin, showing a weakness yet again. The werewolf chuckled softly and Severus tried to hide the shiver running through his body.Lupin sat down beside Severus, leaving a gap of about two feet between them. Severus shot him an indignant sidelong glance and saw the werewolf looking up at the moon as if transfixed by its white light. It made his skin even paler and silvery and Severus wondered if he looked like him now, glowing like a ghost."Beautiful, isn't it?" Lupin whispered hoarsely, his eyes never leaving the moon. "In a horrific way."Severus followed his gaze and his eyes came to rest on the bright, imperfect orb. He did not make an answer. He did not believe that anyone in this castle could understand what Lupin meant. When Lupin sighed, Severus turned to look at him again. Suddenly Severus was very aware of the lines around his eyes and the grey in his brown hair. He looked much older now, with that tired and apprehensive expression on his face. As if he'd lived his life three times over. And at the same time there was a strange look of awe in his eyes, as if he couldn't decide whether he should admire the moon or curse it, be grateful he was alive, werewolf and all, or hate it. It was … intriguing."Yes, it is," Lupin answered his own question, when Severus denied him an answer of his own. "And it is my constant tormentor. It causes me pain and fear. And I …" Then he faltered as if unable to say anything more. Suddenly the smile struck down the frown and Lupin turned to Severus, his eyes still sad and weary. "I am inexpressibly grateful that you enable me to forget some of the fear, Severus. It is the most wonderful gift anyone has ever made me … even if it wasn't your intention to give it."There was a strange feeling welling up inside Severus that seemed to be returning after such a long absence that he had forgotten what it was called, though he could faintly remember its face. Though he still didn't reply, he did not avert his eyes, either, but held Lupin's amber gaze and wondered if his own black eyes gave away that emotion that he had once known, and if Lupin would recognise it and remind Severus of its name. He was fascinated by Lupin's expression, his lips curled into a slight smile while his brow was definitely showing sadness and sorrow, and his eyes … Severus hadn't thought it possible that happiness and worried fear could really be displayed in one pair of eyes at one and the same moment. When he noticed that he was the cause of the worry, that strange, familiar feeling grew even stronger. Lupin obviously expected an answer from him but he didn't know what to say. He didn't usually have such conversations."Well … I … not at all …" he said stupidly and could have slapped himself. Very good answer, indeed, Snape. But Lupin's smile only broadened. Severus hastened to add something rude. "I'm only doing my job. I would not brew the Potion if Dumbledore had not demanded it, so no sentimental feelings …"Lupin chuckled again and Severus cursed him as he shivered once more. "I know, I would not expect you to do me a favour or do something nice for the sake of it," he said hoarsely and ran a hand through his hair as he sighed, spreading that sweet scent again that Severus could not recognise as it mingled with the scent of the rain. "I am not deluding myself about your feelings for me. I just hoped we could let bygones be bygones. Well, I'm already satisfied that you didn't run away again, even though I disturbed you deliberately. So, it seems that we are at least capable of exchanging a few civil words without a Full-body Bind being put on you."Giving him a look, Severus snorted. "I would like to see you try," he said smoothly, and Lupin smiled, rubbing his neck and looking at the moon again. He seemed to be uncomfortable with the topic he had started. Directing jinxes at Severus appeared to be a delicate spot.Lupin rested his elbows on his knees and looked at the lake where the Giant Squid was moonbathing. Indeed, Severus didn't know why he was still here with him, why he hadn't got up and left when the werewolf had arrived. But something was keeping him here, was keeping him sitting quite still. Was it curiosity, fascination, or that feeling whose name was at the tip of his tongue but wouldn't come to him? The fact that he did not know which it was, or if it was something that didn't occur to him, made his wish to stay where he was even stronger.Lupin sighed and rubbed his forehead, drawing his shoulders up as though to protect his neck from a cold draught. "You should not dwell on that Boggart story anymore, Severus, it costs you more energy than it's worth to care about what other people say about you."Giving Lupin an annoyed look, Severus wondered why the werewolf brought up this topic now when he had expressed his satisfaction about their civil conversation. "That is easy for you to say," he snapped, straightening up, "because it isn't you they're laughing at."Lupin smiled and lowered his eyes. "I know how it is to be the object of slander and derisive mockery," he said softly, and Severus felt some strange and surprising constriction in his throat. "And … they are not laughing at you –""Oh, no, of course they are laughing with me, are they?" spat Severus, suddenly angry that Lupin did not take him seriously. But still he did not get up and walk away. Something was still forcing him to hear Lupin out. "Do you see me laughing?"Lupin looked at his feet and sighed again. "No, never …" he replied with a small smile, but this time it didn't look genuine. "What I meant is, they're laughing at an image of you, they're not laughing at something you did or said or even experienced in real life. That is something that happens all the time, to everybody.""It's still laughing …" Severus muttered. He wanted to tell someone how much it upset him and why. And somehow Lupin seemed the perfect person for that. At that very moment, Severus felt that it was right to continue the conversation, although the urge to bang Lupin's head against a wall this time was very present. "Dumbledore thinks it a positive development, because it relieves the tension around me. He called it a comic relief!"He waited for Lupin's laughter, but it never came. "How often do people laugh at me quite openly about my shabby robes, even here at Hogwarts, how often do people talk in loathing disgust about my condition even though they don't even know me? And even if they do know me, the knowledge changes everything," said Lupin still very quietly but also firmly, looking straight ahead at Hagrid's hut. "It happens to me whenever I meet somebody new, whenever I pass strangers in a street. Whenever another employer or another acquaintance finds out about my being a werewolf. But if I brooded about it every time, if I let it get to me, I'd never have a quiet moment again. I've learnt that it doesn't matter what others do or say."He said no more but looked round at Severus and gave him an intent look that seemed to signal his attention. It appeared to mean that he knew that Severus had a few more things to say. For several moments, Severus thought about what Lupin had said and found that he might have judged him too soon, had not considered Lupin's own experiences with humiliation and ill-treatment. Had he been told all that by anybody other than Lupin, Severus would have said that he did not care, but from Lupin's mouth, in his hoarse voice, that advice sounded sincere and significant, the understanding sounded genuine. As did Lupin's apparent interest in him. And despite himself, Severus decided that he wanted Lupin to be the one to listen to him, for he didn't have to fear the replies Albus or McGonagall would have made. Severus did not feel as vulnerable in front of him, not as pathetic as he did when talking to those two. He just felt like talking to a familiar stranger who understood, who would not laugh at or dismiss what he had to say. Because Lupin was the only one who had truly felt sorry about what had happened."I feel transferred into the past, when your friends … when the whole school laughed at me," Severus pressed and saw Lupin frown. "They all think it served me right to be put in a dress by you. They think you are a right hero for daring, that you've got some nerve. The students, the teachers, even McGonagall! They say I shouldn't make such a fuss. Because they either hate me or don't care about what I feel!" He felt slightly awkward as he said it, but when it had been uttered he realised how much it bothered him. It was funny how painful it was, since he disliked many of the students and teachers of Hogwarts, and he surely didn't care much about their feelings. But McGonagall and Albus … that dull ache was back."Your colleagues don't hate you," Lupin said firmly and his hoarse voice sent tingles through Severus's body. "From what I gathered, I can say with some certainty that they respect you. Though they admitted that sometimes you are quite unpleasant company. Some of them consider you their friend, like Minerva, Albus, Filius, and Pomona. You are a difficult person, and students are quick to hate – I'm not going to pretend that you don't give them good reason – but your house and your colleagues don't hate you."Severus met his amber eyes and wondered if Lupin really believed what he was saying or if it was just one of those Gryffindor duties to make everybody feel better, even if it meant that he had to lie. But somehow it made Severus feel a strange kind of good that the werewolf hadn't just told him that if everyone hated him, he only got what he deserved and provoked. And then there was a question on Severus's mind that he just couldn't hold back."And you?" he asked, narrowing his eyes at Lupin, anticipating his answer. "Do you hate me, then?"Lupin looked startled and cocked his head to one side, raising his eyebrows. "No," he said simply, but he wasn't smiling. Severus could hardly believe that what Lupin was telling him the truth. He had done his best to show the werewolf that he hated him powerfully and yet the other still didn't return the feeling? Then again, right now Severus felt only weak remainders of that hatred in his body. It was as though, since Lupin's arrival, his accumulated presence over the past half hour or so – the longest time they had spent in each other's company yet – had erased the hatred slowly but gradually. As though the longer he had the chance to see Lupin up close, the fewer things he found about him that he loathed. Or maybe he just found more things that he didn't seem to be able to loathe. But he still didn't know what on earth that strange feeling was, growing stronger and stronger inside of him. This effect was what he had wanted to prevent by avoiding Lupin. And the thing that he hated most at the moment was not Lupin as a person, but the new and powerful effect he had on him. And that he had no effect on Lupin at all."But you know that I hate you," Severus muttered, unsure whether he should say something like that now, and ignorant as to the reason why he even cared. "It is no secret. Everybody knows I hate you."This statement didn't appear to hurt Lupin or to incite any other negative feelings in him, only a flicker of guilty regret passed over his face almost unnoticed. He smiled silently for a few moments and folded his hands with a sigh. There was a soft breeze once more, ruffling his hair and whirling his sweet scent into Severus's direction, too fleeting to recognise. "No, you do not hate me, Severus," he said and chuckled at Severus's bemused expression. "You hate a shadow of me, a past version of me that has long ceased to exist. I understand your misgivings and I do deserve them, but they are not directed at the man I am now but at the boy you knew. I hope that you will realise this one day, but it doesn't hurt me that you hate that boy. There isn't much of him left in me now."Severus pondered these words, a little bewildered and surprised at Lupin's logic. He did not know if it made sense to him, but it rendered him speechless for a while. Intriguing, that Lupin, too intriguing for Severus's taste. Now his mind had even more information about Lupin to occupy it. And he knew it would be occupied, the last weeks had taught him this. But his mind let go of all those things when he looked out over the grounds, smelling a trace of Lupin's sweet scent on the air. He was silent for a few minutes and against all odds it was a pleasant silence between them. They both inhaled the scent of the rain, enjoying the quiet of the night, and Severus felt at peace somehow, for the first time in ages. His eyes sought Lupin's face again and, taking in his handsome features, pale and faintly lined, illuminated by the pale moonlight, he felt the Boggart incident and all emotions connected to it fall away from him onto the stone steps.Then Lupin turned his head and their eyes met again. Suddenly Severus felt weak in the knees and had he been standing, he was sure he would have fallen. The amber eyes saw right through him, and it felt as if he were stripped naked and forced to reveal the bottom of his soul without being able to resist, completely defenceless. Then a peaceful smile spread over Lupin's face, and the regret vanished, replaced by subdued joy, returning the boyish youth to his face. As though he had taken off his mask for now."I'm glad that you have been able to let go, Severus."Severus stared. It could not be that he was so obvious. What had he practised Occlumency for all those past years? How could the werewolf see through him like that? Severus was uncomfortable with it. "How –""You look at peace," Lupin said calmly. "As though you'd been freed of some load."Severus kept staring. He couldn't deny it. He felt lighter somehow. He looked up at the sky: the moon still shone brightly above them. Then he saw Sirius, the brightest star, and felt suddenly cold, and he knew it was time to leave. He got to his feet, straightening his robes, closely watched by the werewolf beside him. He noticed that his cold expression had slipped off his face and put it back in place to scowl down at Lupin. The scent of soil and stone was still in his nose and he breathed in, closing his eyes for a short moment, enjoying the mixture. Though they were mingled he could still distinguish them like white and black, like day and night."You will start taking the Potion tomorrow. You will need to drink one goblet a day, for a week," he said as coldly and indifferently as he could manage. "I shall be expecting you in my office after lunch to fetch it. Everything else you have to know, I shall tell you then.""Thank you, I'll be there," the werewolf said and as Severus turned to leave he added, "Goodnight.""Be on time," Severus called over his shoulder as he walked away, "I have no time to waste waiting for you!"He entered the Entrance Hall, leaving Lupin and the anger behind on the steps. He glanced at the werewolf's back, then he headed to his office in long strides, wondering how much longer Lupin would stay there, looking at the moon, anticipating the full moon and the Wolfsbane in worried relief. He still had that strange feeling and he still sensed the amber eyes looking right through him, making his legs soft. He hated it. And he didn't. It was most confusing. As soon as the last impression of Lupin's presence had left him, he kindled his loathing again, but it just wouldn't flare as it had used to.Severus couldn't bear the way Lupin could interest him in what he had to say, the way the werewolf seemed to understand him, or the way he made him talk and then listened to his woes, or the way he had said that he didn't hate him. Or the feeling inside of him that he could not figure out, familiar but unknown, so confusing, so painful, and so pleasant. Severus didn't want it. Any of it. After all that had happened between them in the past. What was that man doing to him? And yet … when he thought of how Lupin had encouraged him, how he had not laughed, Severus felt a tiny little spark of warmth in the pit of his stomach, quickly extinguished by his own coldness. But he had never wanted anyone to get to him again, not like this, not with so much unwanted intensity.When he arrived in his rooms he changed into his nightshirt and got quickly into bed, exhausted by the past weeks and in need of a refreshing night's sleep. He decided to read through his list of ingredients and the improved instructions for the Wolfsbane Potion again before going to sleep, though he already knew them by heart. Everything needed to be perfect, after all. When he finally put out the light with his wand, which he laid under his pillow as usual, his mind was so clear and he felt so light that he drifted off to sleep as easily a paper boat on a stream.

	Title: Fortune's Might
	Title: Fortune's Might
	Title:
	 Fortune's Might
	Pairing: SS/RL
	Pairing:
	Disclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.
	Disclaimer
	Author's Note: With this chapter I think I've achieved what I wanted: to make it more believable in every respect. One of my favourites from the original. Looking forward to everybody's opinion. And thanks for your unwavering support JJ, I always love to read what you think :).
	Author's Note
	
	Lesson Five: Water Under The Bridge
	Lesson Five: Water Under The Bridge
	Over the following days, Severus discovered that it was by far easier to hate the werewolf and nourish his anger at him in peace when he wasn't present. This encouraged him to avoid Lupin best he could, though it was rather harder than he would have liked with the werewolf trying to talk to him whenever it was possible. Severus had lost no word about the peace offering, and Lupin had not inquired. He seemed to be glad that Severus hadn't chucked it at his head the morning after finding it in his office. And, Severus supposed in discomfort, Lupin seemed to have looked through him again and found somewhere inside him the licorice ravens, that he had eaten with some inappropriate relish, as though they were Lupin's guilt solidified. But since Lupin had gone back to his usual unaffected, friendly behaviour, Severus had lost some of his satisfaction.
	Whenever anybody mentioned Lupin's name Severus would feel a flare of fury rise up inside him and direct his most menacing glare at the person who had uttered it. But as he didn't have a chance to bully or humiliate Lupin in front of the students or their fellow teachers – due to his resolution to avoid him – he needed to revenge himself on a substitute. And who would be better suited than that dunderhead Longbottom? So Severus took to bullying him worse than ever in Lupin's stead, who would probably not have done Severus the favour of letting himself be bullied anyway. It was partly the boy's fault, too, after all, that the whole school was still talking about that Boggart incident.
	This strategy had another advantage: seeing that the boy he had wanted to help was now suffering from his mistake made Lupin's guilt grow immeasurably. One day Severus saw Lupin's brow so creased that he knew the werewolf was going to do something about it. He was prepared for a decent row, but was disappointed when Lupin decided to talk to the boy rather than his tormentor. His strategy was apology once again, not confrontation. He was taking responsibility and very Gryffindorishly so. Severus found him standing in the Great Hall with Longbottom, beside the giant hourglasses, when he ascended the narrow staircase leading to his office to have dinner. He stopped in the shadows to eavesdrop.
	"… heard that Professor Snape is giving you an especially hard time these days and I feel responsible," Lupin was saying in that mild voice of his, giving Longbottom a look of guilty sympathy. As though he knew how it was to be bullied. But he had no idea. "I want to apologise for getting you in such trouble. I would talk to Professor Snape if I didn't think that it would only make things worse. He – ah – isn't exactly fond of me."
	And how right he was. Severus smirked to himself and was satisfied that Lupin had at least realised that his words did not impress Severus. On the other hand, Severus would have been interested in that conversation, wondering if Lupin was more affected when it wasn't him who was the victim of Severus's bullying but a student. It might have been worthwhile to discuss this with Lupin. Alas, the werewolf was too sensible. And he would probably just have frustrated Severus as usual.
	"If there is anything I can do for you," Lupin went on but Longbottom shook his head, and to Severus's surprise, he was smiling.
	"I liked the lesson, Professor," he said and seemed much more confident than Severus had ever seen him, "it was the first time I really felt like I wasn't the worst at something to do with a wand. It was a good feeling. Professor Snape has been bullying me forever, I suppose worse than bad is still just bad – and it was worth it. So, I'll be fine. Thanks, Professor Lupin."
	Severus rolled his eyes at such sickening Gryffindor sentimentality when Lupin put on an expression of mingled worry and pride. It was like in one of those Witch Weekly photograph stories. Not that he had ever read one of those! He couldn't help it if Vector left the magazine lying around open in the staffroom.
	"Well, if you are sure … you know, I think that with some encouragement and patience you will discover that there is very much more hidden inside you still. I believe that nobody ever took the time to look for it properly," said Lupin and together they walked to dinner still talking but their voices were drowned by those of the chattering students that were now starting to fill the Hall. Severus was sure, though, that the rest of their conversation would revolve around Longbottom's nonexistent hidden potential. If that was the aptitude for teaching that Albus and McGonagall had been talking about, Severus agreed that very few of the staff possessed it. But he did not want it.
	What he wanted was the peace that he had never realised was present in the castle only when Lupin was not there. Never had he noticed that there was a calm at Hogwarts that Lupin disturbed violently. Though Severus had effectively reduced the laughing and scared everybody so thoroughly of using Lupin's name in his presence that he had restored a certain amount of quiet around himself, he still felt as though he would only rest peacefully again when Lupin was gone. Sometimes when he strode through the corridors he still saw a small grin or heard a stifled snicker – which he would both punish with a week's detention at least! – but mostly he seemed to only imagine people laughing at him when they were actually laughing about something else. Severus blamed this paranoia on Lupin. His indignation was such that, since the frightened rumour had spread that Severus could read minds, nobody really dared to even remember the Boggart story anymore, for fear of detentions too vindictive to even imagine.
	"Please stop sulking, Severus," Albus said at dinner as Severus's eyes drifted malignantly into Lupin's direction. "No harm has been done. Remus has apologised. Behave like a grown-up and let the matter rest."
	Severus glared at him. He wondered if he'd still say that if it had been him in the dress with the vulture-topped hat. But then again, Albus would probably have found it very funny indeed even if it had been him. Severus sighed. But Albus didn't have a reputation to lose.
	"'No harm done'," Severus repeated between clenched teeth, "maybe not to you. But they are still laughing behind my back."
	Albus shook his head, smiling slightly. "Ah, Severus, if anything their fear of you has increased," he said quietly, "just yesterday I overheard two first-years talking about you as though you were Lord Voldemort himself – You-Know-Who, they said – and they seemed quite frightened indeed of their next lesson with you. I doubt if some laughter can scratch your iron defence. You are placing too much importance on it. Remus did not mean to cause you trouble, he just had an ingenious idea that was too precious to waste. And he helped an insecure boy discover his capabilities."
	Severus scowled at him. Why did everybody talk about Lupin as though he had done something great, something to be admired? Why did nobody care that Severus was the victim, that he had been humiliated? Albus couldn't possibly believe that it was that easy to just leave this behind. When Severus didn't answer, Albus watched him poking his chicken for a while before folding his hands on the table and drawing breath to continue. Severus rolled his eyes.
	"Maybe such a comic relief was due," he said and Severus gave him a scandalised look. "Now the students who have always been cowering before you know that you are just human, too, and that there is somebody who dares treat you like just another man, not like Severus Snape the intimidating Potions master. It was instructive. It will be far easier for them to study under you and learn what you have to teach them. I have always said that the hilarious effect of imagining somebody you fear in a lacy dress and a funny hat helps you immensely to keep a cool head. I am sure that Neville Longbottom, at least, has profited in more than one way from Remus's inadvertent joke."
	It was impossible for Severus to put into words how incensed he was. He could only stare at Albus and wonder at his impertinence. Inadvertent, as if! Lupin had at least had the decency to pretend he was sorry and hadn't meant to make Severus a laughing stock. Albus's appreciation of Lupin's deed was, however, plain, unprecedented disrespect in Severus's eyes.
	"And you think that that is a positive outcome?" asked Severus incredulously and eyed Albus as though he had gone mad.
	"Oh, yes, Severus," replied Albus, returning to his own chicken, "we are, after all, a school, where it is most important to teach children effectively and provide a comfortable working climate. Speaking of which, the staff are far more relaxed around you, too, now that they know that the limit of your tolerance cannot even be reached by putting you in a dress. I daresay you will find many of them stopping to tiptoe around you. They seem to have realised that your bark is worse than your bite."
	"Be careful now, Dumbledore," growled Severus, who was gripping his fork so firmly that the gold cut into his fingers. "I might reconsider my decision to let Lupin live. I might –"
	"Do not try to make me believe what I know to be empty threats," said Albus pleasantly, looking at him with twinkling blue eyes. "I recommended to your colleagues not to try anything like that themselves, for I believe that there is something about Remus that prevented you from reacting as viciously as you might have done, at least when face to face with him. I do not believe that anybody but Minerva or me would have got away as relatively unscathed as Remus, though you must know that your pain hurt Remus more than any revenge you could have planned for him would."
	"Pain," huffed Severus, averting his eyes, and stubbornly ignoring the bit about Lupin that had sounded all-too-true, "who said anything about pain?"
	pain
	"Your eyes did," said Albus simply, and if he had seen so had Lupin, no doubt. "You are an excellent Occlumens, but hiding such feelings in your eyes when they overpower you suddenly is not one of your strong points."
	Severus didn't want to hear anything more about his weaknesses. He got up, leaving his dinner behind half-eaten. Albus did not call him back, he knew it was no good. While Severus was walking slowly through the deserted Entrance Hall, he thought about why he just couldn't seem to be able to deny that Lupin affected him in a way that was far too strong and unusual for him to just ignore. Albus was right, he would have hexed any other of his colleagues if they had put him in a dress, Boggart or not. But he had let Lupin off just like that. Why did Lupin have such an influence on him when Severus seemed to have none at all on the werewolf?
	"Severus, wait a moment," said a hoarse voice behind him and footsteps echoed through the Hall. Severus closed his eyes in dismay, wishing Lupin away. Now. But when he opened his eyes again and turned around, the werewolf was still approaching him, smiling mildly. Severus immediately turned on his heel and walked away from him, but instead of offending Lupin or making him go away, it only incited a husky chuckle. "Please, Severus, you can't shake me off, I'm more stubborn than you."
	Severus snorted despite himself and came to a halt at the stairs that led into the dungeons, giving in just so Lupin wouldn't follow him into his office or further. Severus would put nothing past him. "That remains to be seen," he said silkily, crossing his arms over his chest. "What do you want now, Lupin? You haven't done anything else to annoy me, have you? I'm not in a very forgiving mood."
	nothing
	"Well, as far as I know you, I would say you never are," said Lupin, putting his hands in his pockets and cocking his head to one side as he chuckled again and forced that odd shiver through Severus's body. "No, I wanted to talk to you about a certain matter."
	Remembering the conversation with Longbottom earlier, Severus gave Lupin a look of mingled irritation and oddly eager expectation. "Why, is this going to be a 'you cannot treat me like this' talk?" he asked suspiciously and narrowed his eyes at Lupin, who raised his eyebrows, seemingly confused.
	"What?" he said and the corners of his mouth twitched. "No, I have no complaints. Quite the contrary. This was going to be an 'I had not the slightest idea and am very sorry' kind of talk."
	It was Severus's turn to be confused. And his patience had not improved since the Boggart incident. "What the heck are you talking about?" he snapped and Lupin's amber eyes flickered away from his for a moment. He was standing at exactly the right distance once more, as though he knew how close he could come to Severus without being too close. Still, he was closer than he had ever been since arriving at Hogwarts. As Lupin shook his hair out of his eyes, Severus got a whiff of some sweet scent, but it was gone before Severus could analyse it.
	too
	"I mean that I did not know that you wanted the Defence job," said Lupin and his expression became somehow odd. In between amused and apologetic. "I had no idea. I am sorry that I have caused you so much displeasure, I believed it was simply my presence that annoyed you, but now I see that there are a few more things that don't agree with you."
	"Your presence certainly agrees least with me," retorted Severus and Lupin's lips twitched again. "Everybody knows that I want to teach Defence Against the Dark Arts. I have watched a dozen people get the post I wanted from the start. Even before you arrived here, everybody in this castle knew that we would not get along."
	"Maybe in this castle everybody knows," said Lupin thoughtfully, running his thumb slowly over his chin, "but I had not seen you for ages. You can believe me that I was unaware. Albus left me in the dark about a few things that he knew would make me uncomfortable."
	"Don't tell me it would have changed anything about your decision to come here, Lupin," said Severus disbelievingly and gave him a scathing look.
	"I would have come here nonetheless, you are right," said Lupin gently as students started streaming out of the Great Hall, "but I would have been prepared. And I would have approached you differently. I just want you to know that I did not steal the job from you on purpose."
	Severus snorted and shook his head. "Forget it, Lupin, as you have noticed there are plenty of other reasons why your presence here causes me 'displeasure'," he sneered and turned away to descend the stairs. "Your company for instance. So, if you'll excuse me …"
	Lupin did not follow him but remained standing at the top of the stairs. After a few moments, he called after Severus. "I am glad you enjoyed the sweets, at least," he said and Severus turned to glare at him, but when his eyes had readjusted to the bright light in the Hall, Lupin had gone. Impertinent werewolf.
	Severus wanted to make Lupin angry for once, but fought down the urge to run after him and retort something. Though he felt a certain need to try and upset Lupin, to make him discard his calm demeanour, once again nothing he had said had offended Lupin. The werewolf's mask seemed to have strengthened and no snide remark could wipe the smile off his face or make the politeness crumble. This frustrated Severus so much that he felt affirmed in his decision to stay away from Lupin and hate him from afar, which, as he noticed, had a different, but nevertheless interesting effect on the werewolf.
	Whenever they came across each other over the following days, Lupin tried to talk to him, not just in the staffroom, or at meals, but in the corridors and the halls, even when they came across each other while patrolling at night. When there was no possibility to make it seem like a coincidence, Lupin was unabashed by his obvious attempts to cross Severus's path on purpose and make conversation. Sometimes he even caught up with Severus in the corridors or doubled back where he had come from when Severus passed him in the opposite direction, just to use the encounter to annoy Severus. Severus either ignored him or told him most eloquently ("Get lost!") that he was not interested in the slightest in talking to him about whichever topic. But he knew as well as Lupin that there was no way that he could avoid him forever. Which was probably why Lupin was being so relentlessly persistent, always in an indecently good mood, never taking offence when Severus shook him off. After a while, Severus started to think that it was a game for Lupin. And he was winning.
	Though Severus never answered Lupin's questions, he was aware by now that the werewolf was interested in him, or pretended to be. He asked questions exclusively about Severus's habits and interests, his opinions and attitudes, his likes and dislikes, his past and his life in general. Severus supposed that some of those questions were answered more or less accurately by the rest of the staff, with whom Lupin got along very well. He had now had tea with Albus, Flitwick, and McGonagall, and Severus had seen him with Hagrid in the grounds. The only person apart from Severus who still didn't want anything to do with him was Filch. Lupin fitted in well with the other teachers and seemed to make good enough company. At least there was more laughter in the staffroom when he was there, more rapt silence among the teachers when he spoke. Severus loathed him all the more for his likability. He wasn't fooled. And he was determined not to give the werewolf the satisfaction of allowing closer contact.
	But again he knew that one thing would force him to allow at least closer professional contact. As the end of September drew nearer, so did the first full moon of term. This was a bitter prospect, since it meant tolerating Lupin in his office when he wished they were living on different planets altogether. The timing was inconvenient, too, since Severus had felt a definite increase in the frequency and strength of the shivers Lupin incited in him. Those husky chuckles were hell. As were those penetrating amber eyes, and to top it all off, Severus had noticed that sweet scent about Lupin again that he could never get to inhale deeply enough to find out what it was. Severus tried not to get too close to Lupin for frustration was now coming from all sides and to all senses, and still Lupin's smiles were staunch and the twitching of his lips was mysterious and his mask was in place and seemingly unbreakable. And it was still intriguing, even more so than it was irritating, though Severus would not admit it.
	Severus spent most of his waking moments cursing the werewolf in every thinkable and unthinkable way, but it didn't seem to be working: the werewolf's health improved instead of declining, and he seemed more satisfied by the day, not to speak of the vast majority of students who had named him their favourite teacher. Severus's mind was so preoccupied with the werewolf, in too many unwanted ways, that he just needed to distract himself. So he took a walk round the lake in the evening to let go of the most annoying or bothering events of the day before turning in. The waxing moon was shining brightly already, and it made the grass gleam and the water of the lake look like a giant mirror. When he had concluded his round, he sat down on the stone steps before the castle with a weary sigh and gazed over the grounds. It was late and he had wished for Black to wander into his field of vision, but no madman was to be seen anywhere. Fate didn't even grant him that little satisfaction.
	It had rained earlier today and the grass and the trees and the stone of the castle were still damp. The air was full of that scent. The scent that would rise from the moist soil and stone, filling the nose like the fumes of a potion. It was as if he could see the scent, hanging in the air like fog, smelling of all the things one usually didn't notice. Soil and stone spread their specific odours that could be clearly distinguished from the smell of the wet grass, and from far away a light breeze brought the Forest's very own fragrance to Severus's nose. He inhaled deeply, eyes closed, feeling calm and relaxed, and thought –
	"A wonderful scent."
	Severus opened his eyes in surprise and whirled round to face the source of the mild voice. Lupin was standing behind him a little to his right, smiling, his gaze wandering over the grounds. Severus stared at him. He hadn't heard Lupin coming and suddenly he felt rather vulnerable without his wand in immediate reach. The scent of the rain had made him grow careless. What if Black had –
	"Don't you think, Severus?" the werewolf interrupted his thoughts and Severus noticed that Lupin was suddenly looking down at him, meeting his gaze with his amber eyes which were gleaming in the moonlight. Severus didn't answer. He felt a jolt in his stomach and looked away, giving in to Lupin, showing a weakness yet again. The werewolf chuckled softly and Severus tried to hide the shiver running through his body.
	Lupin sat down beside Severus, leaving a gap of about two feet between them. Severus shot him an indignant sidelong glance and saw the werewolf looking up at the moon as if transfixed by its white light. It made his skin even paler and silvery and Severus wondered if he looked like him now, glowing like a ghost.
	"Beautiful, isn't it?" Lupin whispered hoarsely, his eyes never leaving the moon. "In a horrific way."
	Severus followed his gaze and his eyes came to rest on the bright, imperfect orb. He did not make an answer. He did not believe that anyone in this castle could understand what Lupin meant. When Lupin sighed, Severus turned to look at him again. Suddenly Severus was very aware of the lines around his eyes and the grey in his brown hair. He looked much older now, with that tired and apprehensive expression on his face. As if he'd lived his life three times over. And at the same time there was a strange look of awe in his eyes, as if he couldn't decide whether he should admire the moon or curse it, be grateful he was alive, werewolf and all, or hate it. It was … intriguing.
	"Yes, it is," Lupin answered his own question, when Severus denied him an answer of his own. "And it is my constant tormentor. It causes me pain and fear. And I …" Then he faltered as if unable to say anything more. Suddenly the smile struck down the frown and Lupin turned to Severus, his eyes still sad and weary. "I am inexpressibly grateful that you enable me to forget some of the fear, Severus. It is the most wonderful gift anyone has ever made me … even if it wasn't your intention to give it."
	There was a strange feeling welling up inside Severus that seemed to be returning after such a long absence that he had forgotten what it was called, though he could faintly remember its face. Though he still didn't reply, he did not avert his eyes, either, but held Lupin's amber gaze and wondered if his own black eyes gave away that emotion that he had once known, and if Lupin would recognise it and remind Severus of its name. He was fascinated by Lupin's expression, his lips curled into a slight smile while his brow was definitely showing sadness and sorrow, and his eyes … Severus hadn't thought it possible that happiness and worried fear could really be displayed in one pair of eyes at one and the same moment. When he noticed that he was the cause of the worry, that strange, familiar feeling grew even stronger. Lupin obviously expected an answer from him but he didn't know what to say. He didn't usually have such conversations.
	"Well … I … not at all …" he said stupidly and could have slapped himself. Very good answer, indeed, Snape. But Lupin's smile only broadened. Severus hastened to add something rude. "I'm only doing my job. I would not brew the Potion if Dumbledore had not demanded it, so no sentimental feelings …"
	Very good answer, indeed, Snape.
	Lupin chuckled again and Severus cursed him as he shivered once more. "I know, I would not expect you to do me a favour or do something nice for the sake of it," he said hoarsely and ran a hand through his hair as he sighed, spreading that sweet scent again that Severus could not recognise as it mingled with the scent of the rain. "I am not deluding myself about your feelings for me. I just hoped we could let bygones be bygones. Well, I'm already satisfied that you didn't run away again, even though I disturbed you deliberately. So, it seems that we are at least capable of exchanging a few civil words without a Full-body Bind being put on you."
	Giving him a look, Severus snorted. "I would like to see you try," he said smoothly, and Lupin smiled, rubbing his neck and looking at the moon again. He seemed to be uncomfortable with the topic he had started. Directing jinxes at Severus appeared to be a delicate spot.
	Lupin rested his elbows on his knees and looked at the lake where the Giant Squid was moonbathing. Indeed, Severus didn't know why he was still here with him, why he hadn't got up and left when the werewolf had arrived. But something was keeping him here, was keeping him sitting quite still. Was it curiosity, fascination, or that feeling whose name was at the tip of his tongue but wouldn't come to him? The fact that he did not know which it was, or if it was something that didn't occur to him, made his wish to stay where he was even stronger.
	Lupin sighed and rubbed his forehead, drawing his shoulders up as though to protect his neck from a cold draught. "You should not dwell on that Boggart story anymore, Severus, it costs you more energy than it's worth to care about what other people say about you."
	Giving Lupin an annoyed look, Severus wondered why the werewolf brought up this topic now when he had expressed his satisfaction about their civil conversation. "That is easy for you to say," he snapped, straightening up, "because it isn't you they're laughing at."
	Lupin smiled and lowered his eyes. "I know how it is to be the object of slander and derisive mockery," he said softly, and Severus felt some strange and surprising constriction in his throat. "And … they are not laughing at you –"
	"Oh, no, of course they are laughing with me, are they?" spat Severus, suddenly angry that Lupin did not take him seriously. But still he did not get up and walk away. Something was still forcing him to hear Lupin out. "Do you see me laughing?"
	with
	Lupin looked at his feet and sighed again. "No, never …" he replied with a small smile, but this time it didn't look genuine. "What I meant is, they're laughing at an image of you, they're not laughing at something you did or said or even experienced in real life. That is something that happens all the time, to everybody."
	"It's still laughing …" Severus muttered. He wanted to tell someone how much it upset him and why. And somehow Lupin seemed the perfect person for that. At that very moment, Severus felt that it was right to continue the conversation, although the urge to bang Lupin's head against a wall this time was very present. "Dumbledore thinks it a positive development, because it relieves the tension around me. He called it a comic relief!"
	Lupin's
	He waited for Lupin's laughter, but it never came. "How often do people laugh at me quite openly about my shabby robes, even here at Hogwarts, how often do people talk in loathing disgust about my condition even though they don't even know me? And even if they do know me, the knowledge changes everything," said Lupin still very quietly but also firmly, looking straight ahead at Hagrid's hut. "It happens to me whenever I meet somebody new, whenever I pass strangers in a street. Whenever another employer or another acquaintance finds out about my being a werewolf. But if I brooded about it every time, if I let it get to me, I'd never have a quiet moment again. I've learnt that it doesn't matter what others do or say."
	He said no more but looked round at Severus and gave him an intent look that seemed to signal his attention. It appeared to mean that he knew that Severus had a few more things to say. For several moments, Severus thought about what Lupin had said and found that he might have judged him too soon, had not considered Lupin's own experiences with humiliation and ill-treatment. Had he been told all that by anybody other than Lupin, Severus would have said that he did not care, but from Lupin's mouth, in his hoarse voice, that advice sounded sincere and significant, the understanding sounded genuine. As did Lupin's apparent interest in him. And despite himself, Severus decided that he wanted Lupin to be the one to listen to him, for he didn't have to fear the replies Albus or McGonagall would have made. Severus did not feel as vulnerable in front of him, not as pathetic as he did when talking to those two. He just felt like talking to a familiar stranger who understood, who would not laugh at or dismiss what he had to say. Because Lupin was the only one who had truly felt sorry about what had happened.
	"I feel transferred into the past, when your friends … when the whole school laughed at me," Severus pressed and saw Lupin frown. "They all think it served me right to be put in a dress by you. They think you are a right hero for daring, that you've got some nerve. The students, the teachers, even McGonagall! They say I shouldn't make such a fuss. Because they either hate me or don't care about what I feel!" He felt slightly awkward as he said it, but when it had been uttered he realised how much it bothered him. It was funny how painful it was, since he disliked many of the students and teachers of Hogwarts, and he surely didn't care much about their feelings. But McGonagall and Albus … that dull ache was back.
	friends
	"Your colleagues don't hate you," Lupin said firmly and his hoarse voice sent tingles through Severus's body. "From what I gathered, I can say with some certainty that they respect you. Though they admitted that sometimes you are quite unpleasant company. Some of them consider you their friend, like Minerva, Albus, Filius, and Pomona. You are a difficult person, and students are quick to hate – I'm not going to pretend that you don't give them good reason – but your house and your colleagues don't hate you."
	Severus met his amber eyes and wondered if Lupin really believed what he was saying or if it was just one of those Gryffindor duties to make everybody feel better, even if it meant that he had to lie. But somehow it made Severus feel a strange kind of good that the werewolf hadn't just told him that if everyone hated him, he only got what he deserved and provoked. And then there was a question on Severus's mind that he just couldn't hold back.
	"And you?" he asked, narrowing his eyes at Lupin, anticipating his answer. "Do you hate me, then?"
	Lupin looked startled and cocked his head to one side, raising his eyebrows. "No," he said simply, but he wasn't smiling. Severus could hardly believe that what Lupin was telling him the truth. He had done his best to show the werewolf that he hated him powerfully and yet the other still didn't return the feeling? Then again, right now Severus felt only weak remainders of that hatred in his body. It was as though, since Lupin's arrival, his accumulated presence over the past half hour or so – the longest time they had spent in each other's company yet – had erased the hatred slowly but gradually. As though the longer he had the chance to see Lupin up close, the fewer things he found about him that he loathed. Or maybe he just found more things that he didn't seem to be able to loathe. But he still didn't know what on earth that strange feeling was, growing stronger and stronger inside of him. This effect was what he had wanted to prevent by avoiding Lupin. And the thing that he hated most at the moment was not Lupin as a person, but the new and powerful effect he had on him. And that he had no effect on Lupin at all.
	"But you know that I hate you," Severus muttered, unsure whether he should say something like that now, and ignorant as to the reason why he even cared. "It is no secret. Everybody knows I hate you."
	This statement didn't appear to hurt Lupin or to incite any other negative feelings in him, only a flicker of guilty regret passed over his face almost unnoticed. He smiled silently for a few moments and folded his hands with a sigh. There was a soft breeze once more, ruffling his hair and whirling his sweet scent into Severus's direction, too fleeting to recognise. "No, you do not hate me, Severus," he said and chuckled at Severus's bemused expression. "You hate a shadow of me, a past version of me that has long ceased to exist. I understand your misgivings and I do deserve them, but they are not directed at the man I am now but at the boy you knew. I hope that you will realise this one day, but it doesn't hurt me that you hate that boy. There isn't much of him left in me now."
	Severus pondered these words, a little bewildered and surprised at Lupin's logic. He did not know if it made sense to him, but it rendered him speechless for a while. Intriguing, that Lupin, too intriguing for Severus's taste. Now his mind had even more information about Lupin to occupy it. And he knew it would be occupied, the last weeks had taught him this. But his mind let go of all those things when he looked out over the grounds, smelling a trace of Lupin's sweet scent on the air. He was silent for a few minutes and against all odds it was a pleasant silence between them. They both inhaled the scent of the rain, enjoying the quiet of the night, and Severus felt at peace somehow, for the first time in ages. His eyes sought Lupin's face again and, taking in his handsome features, pale and faintly lined, illuminated by the pale moonlight, he felt the Boggart incident and all emotions connected to it fall away from him onto the stone steps.
	Then Lupin turned his head and their eyes met again. Suddenly Severus felt weak in the knees and had he been standing, he was sure he would have fallen. The amber eyes saw right through him, and it felt as if he were stripped naked and forced to reveal the bottom of his soul without being able to resist, completely defenceless. Then a peaceful smile spread over Lupin's face, and the regret vanished, replaced by subdued joy, returning the boyish youth to his face. As though he had taken off his mask for now.
	"I'm glad that you have been able to let go, Severus."
	Severus stared. It could not be that he was so obvious. What had he practised Occlumency for all those past years? How could the werewolf see through him like that? Severus was uncomfortable with it. "How –"
	"You look at peace," Lupin said calmly. "As though you'd been freed of some load."
	Severus kept staring. He couldn't deny it. He felt lighter somehow. He looked up at the sky: the moon still shone brightly above them. Then he saw Sirius, the brightest star, and felt suddenly cold, and he knew it was time to leave. He got to his feet, straightening his robes, closely watched by the werewolf beside him. He noticed that his cold expression had slipped off his face and put it back in place to scowl down at Lupin. The scent of soil and stone was still in his nose and he breathed in, closing his eyes for a short moment, enjoying the mixture. Though they were mingled he could still distinguish them like white and black, like day and night.
	"You will start taking the Potion tomorrow. You will need to drink one goblet a day, for a week," he said as coldly and indifferently as he could manage. "I shall be expecting you in my office after lunch to fetch it. Everything else you have to know, I shall tell you then."
	"Thank you, I'll be there," the werewolf said and as Severus turned to leave he added, "Goodnight."
	"Be on time," Severus called over his shoulder as he walked away, "I have no time to waste waiting for you!"
	He entered the Entrance Hall, leaving Lupin and the anger behind on the steps. He glanced at the werewolf's back, then he headed to his office in long strides, wondering how much longer Lupin would stay there, looking at the moon, anticipating the full moon and the Wolfsbane in worried relief. He still had that strange feeling and he still sensed the amber eyes looking right through him, making his legs soft. He hated it. And he didn't. It was most confusing. As soon as the last impression of Lupin's presence had left him, he kindled his loathing again, but it just wouldn't flare as it had used to.
	Severus couldn't bear the way Lupin could interest him in what he had to say, the way the werewolf seemed to understand him, or the way he made him talk and then listened to his woes, or the way he had said that he didn't hate him. Or the feeling inside of him that he could not figure out, familiar but unknown, so confusing, so painful, and so pleasant. Severus didn't want it. Any of it. After all that had happened between them in the past. What was that man doing to him? And yet … when he thought of how Lupin had encouraged him, how he had not laughed, Severus felt a tiny little spark of warmth in the pit of his stomach, quickly extinguished by his own coldness. But he had never wanted anyone to get to him again, not like this, not with so much unwanted intensity.
	When he arrived in his rooms he changed into his nightshirt and got quickly into bed, exhausted by the past weeks and in need of a refreshing night's sleep. He decided to read through his list of ingredients and the improved instructions for the Wolfsbane Potion again before going to sleep, though he already knew them by heart. Everything needed to be perfect, after all. When he finally put out the light with his wand, which he laid under his pillow as usual, his mind was so clear and he felt so light that he drifted off to sleep as easily a paper boat on a stream.
	
Title: Fortune's MightPairing: SS/RLDisclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.Author's Note: This is one of my favourite chapters, it was great fun to write, I hope you enjoy it, too. Chase'sGirl19, I think you taking your time is a great compliment, thanks :) I always liked to imagine that Remus took some mischievous pleasure in being persistent about his affection for Severus because it would most certainly annoy Severus greatly. Resevius, I really wanted to keep them as IC as I could this time around, and I think Severus is a very unpleasant person, really, and I didn't want to smooth that over. But that only makes the romance more powerful in my opinion, it's what makes Snupin so fascinating because Remus is such a kind and patient person, and awfully understanding but just as flawed in his own way, so I'm glad you approve ;).Lesson Six: Milk of Human KindnessOn the following day, Severus did feel vulnerable, after all. It was almost painful to look Lupin in the eye, so he didn't, but he didn't dare avoid him, either, lest the werewolf took it as a challenge and came to talk to him again. Severus didn't think he could bear talking to him after everything he had said last night. Though he wanted to act as though last night's conversation hadn't taken place, he found it an impossibility. The rude remarks he came up with when Lupin was close got stuck in his throat, all he managed was passive rudeness upon being addressed or looked at: his loathing was still burning very low indeed. He had exposed his feelings to the werewolf, had handed him weapons that Lupin could use against him should he feel that Severus needed a warning. It was infuriating. Severus didn't usually do anything like that, because he knew the dangers it posed.But it seemed that Lupin had a way of luring such words out of Severus's mouth, if Severus wanted it or not. Severus had a feeling that Lupin had known what bothered him before Severus had even told him. As though his amber eyes saw things not even Severus's Legilimency could find. It made him avoid Lupin's eyes even more stubbornly. Though he knew that eye contact was probably unnecessary for Lupin's brand of knowing. Severus did not want him to know. But he knew that once again there was a moment when he wouldn't be able to prevent it anymore, and that moment arrived rather more quickly than last time.He wished he hadn't invited Lupin to fetch the Wolfsbane, it made him vulnerable once more, for it brought Lupin into his private space again, enabled him to look at his belongings. Perhaps if he entered Lupin's office, he would feel as though he had compensated for Lupin's advantage, but too much friendliness on his part would only encourage the werewolf to think that last night's talk had changed Severus's attitude. He didn't want to give Lupin the impression that he was seeing in him more than a nuisance. That feeling had strengthened rather than lessened. And what Lupin had said about his hatred didn't change his mind all-that-much. Lupin was not a boy anymore, but that boy whom Severus still hated was part of him and if Severus had to pay and to feel guilty for what he had done as a boy, so did Lupin.Since the Wolfsbane Potion took rather a long time to make, Severus used the whole morning to brew it, and let it simmer while he was at lunch, tucking in ravenously, for when he worked nothing else could penetrate his mind and he would forget that he was hungry or thirsty. It was a complex enough Potion to try his skill but like every single one of his first attempts, it turned out just perfect. It was green with a putrid smell and a thickly consistency. Despite himself, Severus smirked at the thought of the face Lupin would make when he was told to drink it. It wasn't particularly appetising. Lupin ambled into the Hall when Severus was almost finished with lunch, but he did not smile around like he would usually do and he did not look as nonchalant and at ease as he usually did. His eyes were directed at the floor so Severus dared watch him bite his lip and furrow his brow and mutter to himself, his hands picking at his frayed sleeves. Apparently Lupin was affected by some things.But he arrived in Severus's office after lunch, though punctuality usually didn't seem to be his strong point, and knocked politely just as Severus returned from his laboratory with a goblet he had filled to the rim with foul-smelling Potion. Severus cleared his throat and debated with himself for a moment whether he should set the goblet on the table or hand it to Lupin, risking involuntary body contact. Deciding that setting it down was safer, lest it fell to the ground when it was handed over, he straightened his robes, scolding himself and feeling slightly silly for making such a fuss, and found himself nervous and dreading a continuation or mention of the conversation he had had with the werewolf. Pushing it all to the back of his mind, Severus felt as though he hadn't seen Lupin in ages rather than only twenty minutes ago, as he said, "Enter."The door opened slowly and Lupin stepped inside, his eyes drifting first over the floor, then round the office to come to rest on Severus's face. He smiled and closed the door behind himself, and as he did so, Severus saw his hand trembling on the doorknob. As he looked at Severus he did not give away any of his apparent anxiety, but his hands did not lie and after a few moments his brow creased a little, though his smile did not waver."Good afternoon, Severus," he said and his politeness did not lessen as he strolled across the room, stopping short of the desk and looking expectantly at Severus. He seemed to notice the goblet but did not take it. Perhaps he was waiting for instructions. Or reassurance. When he received neither, he nodded at the goblet. "Is that it?""Obviously," said Severus, raising an eyebrow at him. "You need to drink it before it turns cold, you may not add anything to improve the taste and you should not eat or drink anything but clear water after you have drunk it. Your next meal will be dinner. Understand?""Oh, yes, I understand," said Lupin vaguely, considering the goblet and waving a hand over it to bring the smoke closer to his nose and inhale it. "Ah, that smell is …" he said then with an apologetic grimace and Severus saw comprehension dawning on his tired face. "You mentioned the taste for a reason, did you not?""I did," said Severus and smirked at Lupin, whose eyes turned to the ceiling as though he was praying for strength. "Drink it and you will find out whether it is as disagreeable as Belby makes out.""Well, I suppose I will have to," replied Lupin and as he reached for the Potion with trembling fingers, Severus saw, with an odd jolt in his stomach, that Lupin's eyes gave away his nervousness now as clearly as though he had once more discarded his mask. Was it the unknown that affected him? Was it because he did not know what to expect, because something he had lived with for almost thirty years was now going to change? Severus was intrigued as he watched Lupin raise the goblet to his mouth, then wrinkle his nose and lower it again, taking a few deep breaths through his mouth. "Quick does it, I think," he muttered, and looked rather nauseous as he closed his eyes and touched the goblet to his lips, tilting it to drink the whole in one draught.Despite himself, Severus admired Lupin's nerve and wondered how he managed not to retch, for the dose was a big one. The werewolf certainly looked like retching when he set down the goblet, taking deep breaths once more, his eyes screwed up and his hands gripping the back of the chair opposite Severus's. It looked like an enormous effort for Lupin to endure the taste and control the feeling of nausea, and Severus thought that Belby might, after all, have underestimated the taste."Keep it in, Lupin, I only have one dose to spare and I would prefer to save it for an accident," said Severus with some amusement as Lupin banged his fist on the back of the chair he was gripping in an obvious struggle with his stomach. Lupin nodded, though, and opened his eyes, which were watering slightly. He seemed to have won the struggle."I do not believe," he said breathlessly and Severus could not help but appreciate the increased hoarseness of his voice, "that there exist any words to describe how utterly disgusting this is. And I doubt that Belby found any. Sometimes I wonder if it is 'the more disgusting, the better' for you Potioneers or if you just like to see the drinkers suffer.""A bit of both in my case," said Severus mockingly, and Lupin chuckled huskily and ran a nervous hand through his greying hair. Severus knew that he didn't feel like chuckling, actually, but his nervousness forced him to."Well, as long as it works," Lupin added after a few moments of composing himself."It does, never fear," said Severus and considered Lupin closely for signs of immediate side effects. But other than Lupin growing even paler from the shock of tasting something so disgusting – Severus tried not to snort with mirth – he seemed perfectly normal. "Should you notice any complications or feel in any way different from usual, report it to me at once."Lupin raised his eyebrows and his eyes showed his nervousness even more clearly than before. They were like swirling gold now, reflecting the flickering flames of the torches. "Am I to expect complications?" he asked uncertainly. Severus sneered at him. Ignorant werewolf."In the case of a revolutionary discovery that has not yet been tested on many different subjects, it is always wise to expect the worst," he replied, applying an ominous tone on purpose. Lupin frowned at him. "Oh, you don't need to fear death. Others have taken it and lived. But it could be that you don't react very well to the Potion, in which case I can modify it if possible. There might be certain unpleasant side effects, since the Potion has not been perfected over years but only just been invented. Should you notice anything out of the ordinary, tell me and I shall see if it is within normal parameters or if it is a side effect.""I am sure you can find a solution for any problem to do with Potions, so I'm not going to worry too much," said Lupin and indeed, as he looked around once more and back at the empty goblet, some of his anxiety seemed to leave him. Severus tried to push away the surreptitious feeling of satisfaction at Lupin's words. Lupin laid a hand to his stomach and bent over for a moment, making a sound of great discomfort. "I think it was a mistake to drink it in one," he said, but sounded amused this time. "I'll know better tomorrow. When I think about all the things that I now don't have to fear anymore, I feel that a few moments of disgust are a small sacrifice.""Good medicine always tastes bitter," said Severus quietly, cleaning the goblet and setting it down on a shelf behind him. He did not know why he was waiting patiently for Lupin to feel ready to leave, instead of just throwing him out, but he could not help himself. When he turned back to the werewolf, his amber eyes were giving him a curious look and Severus felt somewhat trapped, defenceless again, anticipating some unpleasant conversation. Lupin wore that knowing look again. But he did not say anything this time that would have indicated what he knew."True," he replied thoughtfully, giving Severus a vague smile, "and you must know, right, Severus?""That is right," said Severus, narrowing his eyes at Lupin. Then Lupin chuckled and shook his head, straightening up."I suspect that Belby did it on purpose," he said shrewdly, "he is not a werewolf sympathiser at all, as far as I know. I heard it was mere coincidence that he discovered this Potion.""Like most revolutionary inventions," said Severus slowly, "but I can assure you that there is nothing to be done about the taste, my improvements of the Potion have, if anything, made it worse. The combination of ingredients creates the effect, the taste is a byproduct, an unpleasant one, admittedly. But not to be changed. Neither Belby, nor I, meant ill by it."Giving Severus a twitching smile, Lupin put his hands in his pockets, seemingly at ease again. "Though I do believe you, I cannot help feeling that you would find it very entertaining to torture me with that taste. I can even imagine you making it more disgusting to make me give up on it. But, as I said, I am more stubborn than you.""You are right to suspect something like that from me," said Severus silkily, "and I wish I could do it without messing with the Potion, but alas, it is impossible. I do not fancy being blamed for the wreckage of your rooms.""I suggested the Shrieking Shack," said Lupin softly, looking around again, "but Albus insisted … it will work for me, won't it? Definitely?" he added seriously and gave Severus a searching, rather stern look. "You said I might not react well, does that include a possible failure of the Potion?"Severus wanted to say yes, just so Lupin would take responsibility and leave, after all. But the possibility did not exist and … somehow, he did not feel like lying. The Shrieking Shack was not entirely safe, either, but surely Albus would talk Lupin into staying with the Whomping Willow as his guard. It had been good enough in the past. The werewolf was too happy at Hogwarts to leave now. Too popular, really. What use was it to fight a losing battle with a weak lie?"Do not offend me with your lack of confidence in my skill," said Severus instead, and succeeded in injecting some coldness into his voice. "The Potion will work. I was talking of headaches, nausea, insomnia, and the like. Preferably all at once, if I could have a say. But you will stay sane during the full moon. I guarantee it."Reassured, Lupin nodded and smiled more freely. "Forgive me. Of course I trust you," he said and Severus gave him an incredulous look that he didn't seem to notice. Silly werewolf, trusting him. "I was a little apprehensive, didn't know what to expect," Lupin went on, chuckling, "but that was rather unspectacular.""Did you think that there would be fireworks or smoking nostrils?" asked Severus sarcastically and Lupin shrugged. "Its effect is not immediate, it unfolds over time. I daresay you will feel it after a couple more doses, but being no expert on werewolves and having found nothing in the description of the Potion, I do not know when or how exactly it will manifest itself. You can report it to me for further study. I would love to tell Belby what he missed. He only listed the ultimate effect of sanity in the transformed werewolves. And the Headmaster acquired it from the man himself, which tells us he did not find it necessary to mention anything more."Lupin had listened silently and now cocked his head to the side, with the corners of his mouth twitching again. "I will let you know of any changes I notice," he said obligingly. "I thank you very much for your work and your time. I'll have to prepare my next lesson now, please excuse me." And he left with an inclination of his head, closing the door carefully behind him. Severus realised that he had not needed to throw him out, after all. Maybe Lupin did not want to try Severus's patience too much. Or perhaps he had just wanted to be alone with his nervousness after having had his questions answered satisfactorily. But in any case he had left in his wake the blossoming feeling of vulnerability once more. What had he seen in Severus this time?If Lupin had really seen something, he did not mention it during the following week. He always arrived for his Potion on time after lunch and drank it fast but in individual gulps, always trying to involve Severus in some short conversation before leaving for his next lesson. Severus did not feel inclined to talk, though, trying to prevent Lupin finding out even more about him, and thus Lupin's visits remained short and quiet, though polite on Lupin's part and tolerant on Severus's. Rudeness, spite, and cruelty did not help against Lupin. Coldness was ineffective. What use was it to try them again and again? It would only frustrate Severus. He couldn't risk another situation like the one in front of the castle, when Lupin had got far too close to him, not only physically.The Potion's taste caused Lupin great discomfort and he had assured Severus that it was unlikely that anyone could ever get used to anything so foul. Severus thought that Lupin's sense of taste must have been polluted by too much sugar, and that that was why he was making such a fuss. But he did not deny that the smell at least promised a taste of decaying rabbit. If that was the case, Lupin's resolution was to be admired, for the goblets were big and the taste stayed long in the mouth without anything to wash it down. But Severus was far from admiring him. He gave him to understand that he found it ungrateful of him to complain about the taste all the time, which silenced Lupin effectively, but didn't banish the grimace from his face. Severus heard him complaining to McGonagall instead, who pitied him obediently, and he smirked to himself as he watched the scene. She scolded him later, but Severus did not care.On the day before the full moon, Severus saw the nervousness in the werewolf's every movement and heard it in every word he uttered. Lupin knocked over the chair that stood in front of Severus's desk and almost dropped the goblet with Potion when he lifted it to his lips. His voice shook considerably when he laughed about his own clumsiness and apologised, dropping the chair three times before he managed to pick it up and put it back on its legs. Severus considered him silently and when Lupin had drained the goblet, Severus's eyes wandered over his face, the weak smile, the creased brow, and the amber eyes, dull and misty instead of twinkling and clear. Severus caught himself staring into those eyes longingly, wishing back the golden light that usually filled them. Shaking his head at himself, he twirled the goblet between his fingers and after a few seconds' silence he took a deep breath and turned his back on the werewolf, clearing his throat."I shall bring the Potion to your office tomorrow," he said quietly, and as Lupin made a questioning noise he added, "I don't want you to knock over something valuable next time.""Oh, right," said Lupin. "Thank you."He was rather less inclined to talk today. He seemed a little less himself altogether. Severus wondered if it was the approaching full moon, the Potion, or both. He had no knowledge of the effect the full moon had on werewolves before the transformation. "I also don't want to risk you not being in your rooms in time for nightfall … you are my responsibility, after all. You don't seem too well on your feet at the moment.""You needn't worry," said Lupin with a weak smile and took his leave, swaying slightly. Severus thought he was right to worry. But he did not want to.After lunch on the following day, Severus ascended the many stairs to Lupin's office at a careful and unusually slow pace, his eyes on the Potion and his surroundings to make sure that he didn't spill anything or have it spilled by a student or Peeves. When he arrived at the door of the werewolf's office, he knocked three times and when he heard a hoarse "Come in," he opened the door and stepped inside."Ah, Severus," smiled Lupin, looking up from some papers he had been brooding over. "Thank you very much for bringing the Potion."Severus looked him over, finding his hands shaking as they held the papers, which quivered between his fingers. He looked paler than ever, the rings under his eyes were very dark, his hair lank. His amber eyes were positively bleary now and Severus wondered if he could see properly at all. Inquiring after side effects seemed wise, and Severus was curious as to whether Lupin felt what the Potion was doing or not."You look dreadful," said Severus truthfully and Lupin chuckled huskily, making Severus shiver. He had got used to it by now. "You said you would report anything out of the ordinary.""This is not out of the ordinary," said Lupin calmly, getting to his feet. "This is just the full moon taking its toll. I didn't feel any side effects. Every unpleasant feeling I had was just the usual pre-transformation illness. The side effects you mentioned – headaches, nausea, insomnia – all those are symptoms of that illness. If anything, I thought the Potion lessened it a little. I think I reacted quite well to it. I am satisfied, anyway, and I am sure you are to thank. I'm very sorry to disappoint you," he added with an amused smile as he noticed Severus's disgruntled expression. Severus snorted. "You were right, I do feel the effect now. It clears my mind. I wish I understood how it works.""It would be no good to explain it," said Severus dismissively, as Lupin walked round his desk and came suddenly very close. "You would not understand the subtle effect of the combination of ingredients and brewing." Lupin stopped at exactly the right distance again and took the goblet out of Severus's hand without touching him. He shook his hair out of his eyes and again Severus could smell his sweet scent but it was gone before he could grasp it."You are right, of course," the werewolf said and carried the Potion back to his desk. When he sat down again, he gave Severus a curious look, cocked his head to the side and smiled. "Would you care for a cup of tea?"Severus narrowed his eyes at him, noticing that Lupin was not touching the Potion at all. He raised an eyebrow and gave Lupin an incredulous look. Lupin knew that Severus would not leave without having seen him take the Potion, because it was his responsibility to make sure that Lupin stayed safe. Was Lupin actually prolonging Severus's stay on purpose? Did he actually want him to drink a cup of tea with him? Perhaps that was why he didn't drink the Potion. He knew that he should not eat or drink anything for several hours after drinking it. "Tea?" asked Severus just to make sure he hadn't misheard. He gave his voice a mocking inflection to show his scepticism."Why, yes," said Lupin pleasantly, turning the goblet on the table. "Between colleagues … or Potioneer and patient, whichever you prefer. Don't look at me like that," he chuckled as Severus's expression became disbelieving, "do you find my presence so unbearable?"Severus smirked and stepped a little closer. "Yes," he said in a silky voice and enjoyed the flash of unpleasant surprise in Lupin's eyes, that were so dull today. Then he jerked his head at the old kettle that was standing on one of Lupin's shelves. "Yes, why not?" Lupin's face lit up and he tapped the teakettle with his wand, making it steam. Then he took two teabags from a dusty tin and set two chipped cups on the table."Teabags?" Severus sneered, taking the cup from Lupin as he pulled the only chair in front of the desk and sat down. Lupin shrugged with a vague smile."Well, tealeaves are more expensive," he said lightly, "you learn to do without certain luxuries in favour of obtaining other, more important things if you have only limited amounts of gold at your disposal."Severus sipped the tea. It couldn't compare to the tealeaves he usually used but it was acceptable. "Those things being?" he asked, looking at the werewolf over the rim of his teacup.Lupin smiled slightly still, but his brow creased a little. "Food," he said simply and suddenly Severus felt cold. He stared into his tea. That was something he had never experienced himself. The tolls it took to be a werewolf ...He knew he shouldn't have asked Lupin about it. He had known the answer. But what did it matter anyway? "But doing without tea altogether is –""Is impossible," Lupin finished his sentence and laughed a little. "I could never do without my five o'clock tea, it makes my throat less sore." He chuckled his husky chuckle and Severus felt his spine tingling, still staring into his tea in which Lupin was reflected, slightly blurred. "Well, it doesn't really make that much of a difference …" Lupin added, running a hand through his hair and taking a sip of tea himself. The Potion was still standing smoking beside Lupin's hand."Doesn't matter," muttered Severus to himself, taking another gulp of his tea as he let his eyes wander around the office, over the shelves full of books, magazines and papers, registering some untidiness as his gaze fastened on a cage in the corner behind Lupin's desk. There was a Redcap in there, sulking, it seemed, and shooting angry glances at Lupin's back."What did you say?" asked Lupin, and as Severus's eyes found his face again, his amber eyes were considering him quite closely."Nothing," said Severus, and nodded at the Redcap. "Do you always bring Dark creatures to your classes or are you planning on opening a Dark creature zoo?"Lupin looked round at the cage and smiled. "I think it's important that they see the real thing whenever possible, not just a picture in a book," he said, scratching his cheek. "It is essential to know how these fellows behave and what they really look like. Though this little chap gave me some trouble when he first arrived. He doesn't like it here." The Redcap emphasised this point by kicking the wires of the cage and snarling angrily at Lupin, who chuckled apologetically. "Don't worry, I'll make it up to you. Drop you at Culloden, you'll love it there."The Redcap gave him a look as though sizing him up, then seemed a little more satisfied at the prospect of living in a place of horrible bloodshed. Severus shook his head at the expression on Lupin's face as he considered the Redcap: it was bordering on endearment, almost as though he were looking at a puppy. He seemed to have grown fond of the creature while sharing his office with it. Severus wondered if there would be any room left to move around in the office by the end of the school year. At least the werewolf didn't need a cage to bring himself to class. Severus smirked."I see no moon charts in your office, Lupin," he said as Lupin handed the Redcap a biscuit which it devoured greedily. "Are you hiding them in your rooms?""What?" asked Lupin, slightly bewildered as he turned his attention back to Severus, after having given the creature his cup of tea. "Oh, no, no, I don't need charts. I usually have one at home, but I have a Lunascope to make completely sure.""You possess a Lunascope?" asked Severus, surprised that he could afford one."Well, can you imagine anyone who is in more urgent need of one than me?" asked Lupin in amusement. "My father gave it to me when I moved out, he didn't need it anymore with me gone.""I see …" said Severus, as Lupin turned to the Potion to finally drink it, and found that it did not annoy him today that he had to spend a longer time in Lupin's presence. He wondered if he could bear this fact and thought that it was perhaps easier if he simply accepted it. He could still dislike Lupin, even when sitting in his office, having tea with him. Though at the moment, the only thing he disliked about the werewolf was, indeed, that he had once been a boy, weak and silent. It was hard to believe that that boy had become this man.Severus watched Lupin drink with trembling hands, his eyes closed, his nose wrinkled, and when he set the goblet down to have a break, his eyes flitted in the direction of the sugar bowl. "Disgusting," he muttered in resignation, glancing at Severus, who shook his head."No sugar," said Severus and was amused to see Lupin eying him with some defiant misgivings, "I told you, it makes the Potion useless. I'm not making it up, though you are right to suspect it. The last few doses would have been in vain. But please, it is your decision, give in to temptation …""No, of course not," said Lupin, unsmiling now, and drained the goblet with a violent shudder.Severus looked into his tired, ill face and could not help asking. "So you feel the full moon even now?" he inquired, curious if it was just the moon or really the nervousness that made the werewolf so shaky, for they had ascertained that it was not the Potion."Oh, yes, I do," said Lupin, nodding as he pushed the goblet over the table towards Severus. "I feel its attempts to take over my body, and it is wearing me out. My body is preparing for the transformation, though I was never quite sure if the nervousness and the feeling ill is down to the wolf or to my own fear of it. The result is the same, I think. After the full moon I feel better than before the full moon, despite the exhaustion. The power of the moon weakens quickly. The Potion really helps, though. Usually I feel the wolf more strongly in my mind." He smiled again, but gave in to a frown almost at once. "I'm nervous …" he confessed unnecessarily, averting his eyes and focusing them on Severus's now empty teacup.Severus hesitated, his eyes wandering over Lupin's pale face. He didn't feel obliged to tell Lupin that everything would go well and actually he didn't even know that it would, but … "Everything will go well," his mouth formed the words before his brain had decided to say them. The werewolf looked up, surprised. Severus got to his feet, having created the urge to leave inside himself by uttering that reassurance. Lupin still looked taken aback as Severus picked up the goblet. "Or do you doubt my skill? I thought I had told you not to offend me," Severus added with a daring look on his face."Of course I don't," said Lupin with an incredulously relieved smile, "you are right, I should not worry. But it is not your skill that I doubt, it is that I don't know what it will be like. How will it feel to be sane inside the wolf's body? How will the different body feel? Will I be able to move around? Will I think like I do now? Will I be fully human or a tame beast? Will it be a relief to be freed from the fear that I might bite, to wake without injuries from my own teeth and claws? Will I feel the ongoing pain of the transformation? Because I always feel it in the morning, back in my own body. I am quite frightened of having to bear it twice."Severus found it intriguing that Lupin told him all these private, intimate things, unabashed and frank. It was almost as though he thought that there was a connection between them, created by their conversation on the stone steps and maybe by this odd arrangement that had made them Potioneer and patient, indeed. Even though Severus had never wanted to be a Healer. He was unsure whether he ought to feel awkward or uncomfortable with Lupin's confiding in him. Nobody ever really talked to him like Lupin just had and it felt weirdly satisfying to be trusted like this, even if it was Lupin. That strange feeling was back … and there was a warm sensation in his chest that he did not know the source of. And suddenly, quite involuntarily, he felt connected to Lupin, too. And he didn't think that he wanted that."It is … very painful?" asked Severus, and when their eyes met he knew that Lupin had seen through him again."It is pure agony," said Lupin and he was not smiling. Severus nodded, letting his eyes drift away from Lupin's mild face. He felt strange now. He wished he had not asked, had not listened. Lupin got up and walked to the door, opening it for Severus as though he sensed that Severus would rather leave now. Would really rather not be here.Severus stared at Lupin. He couldn't imagine what it felt like to transform like Lupin would that night and he was glad he couldn't. But when his eyes came to rest on the werewolf's hand on the doorknob, and he saw one of the many scars that must be scattered over the rest of Lupin's body as well, he met his eyes again. "I am sure that it will be worth it, I certainly hope that all the time I wasted on that Potion and supervising you was not in vain," he said mockingly and was satisfied when Lupin's face brightened a bit."Thank you, Severus," said Lupin and Severus registered that he had said it rather often lately. And Severus thought that he would never grow tired of hearing it."I shall check up on you tomorrow morning," he said and surprised himself with the wish to do so."If it is not too much trouble," said Lupin and sounded grateful, but for the first time Severus found something like uncomfortable awkwardness in his eyes. Perhaps it was an especially vulnerable situation, the morning after the full moon. Perhaps he did not want to be seen like that, or be helped when he was weak. Perhaps it was his pride, or his dignity. But then he suddenly seemed to appreciate it. "It might be nice if somebody came to look after me. It has been a long time since my father last did that … or Madam Pomfrey. She offered but … I am not a boy anymore, I would not like her to come. With you it is different. I remember how it was when there were still people who cared for me.""I shall not treat you like a child," said Severus warningly, wondering what Lupin imagined him to do. Hold his hand? He did not like Lupin to imagine that he cared about him or his well-being. "I shall come to see if you are still alive, that is all.""That is all I would expect," smiled Lupin, leaning against the doorframe, "I would not ask for more. But you don't have to, if it is too much to ask.""I offered, I wouldn't have if I didn't feel up to it," muttered Severus, feeling uncertain now. But despite his doubts, Lupin seemed to be looking forward to it now. Which only strengthened Severus's uncertainty. He didn't want their connection to strengthen, it was too complicated, too close, too dangerous. It was bad enough that Albus was close to him. It was hard already to keep McGonagall at a distance. But he would not back out now. That would be too undignified. "Expect me sometime after breakfast. Dumbledore made you my responsibility, I shall not neglect it."Without waiting for a reply, Severus made his way back to the dungeons. The door closed and something clattered, followed by Lupin's voice groaning. Apparently he had knocked over his own chair this time. Severus smirked a little. When he arrived in his laboratory he put the empty cauldron back into the cupboard after a quick cleaning spell. Over a fire on the worktable, another potion was already simmering, an Invigorating Draught, just in case it was needed in the morning.That night Severus couldn't sleep. He told himself that it was because he feared Lupin would break out of his rooms and eat someone, which was, of course, complete nonsense. The silvery light of the full moon fell onto his face and he raised his hand, examining the glow around it, puzzled by the power of the light, immune to the power it had on Lupin. In reality he thought of Lupin and wondered if the werewolf could finally see the full moon with the amber eyes of the human, through the windows of his bedroom.

	Title: Fortune's Might
	Title:
	 Fortune's Might
	Pairing: SS/RL
	Pairing:
	Disclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.
	Disclaimer
	Author's Note: This is one of my favourite chapters, it was great fun to write, I hope you enjoy it, too. Chase'sGirl19, I think you taking your time is a great compliment, thanks :) I always liked to imagine that Remus took some mischievous pleasure in being persistent about his affection for Severus because it would most certainly annoy Severus greatly. Resevius, I really wanted to keep them as IC as I could this time around, and I think Severus is a very unpleasant person, really, and I didn't want to smooth that over. But that only makes the romance more powerful in my opinion, it's what makes Snupin so fascinating because Remus is such a kind and patient person, and awfully understanding but just as flawed in his own way, so I'm glad you approve ;).
	Author's Note
	
	Lesson Six: Milk of Human Kindness
	Lesson Six: Milk of Human Kindness
	On the following day, Severus did feel vulnerable, after all. It was almost painful to look Lupin in the eye, so he didn't, but he didn't dare avoid him, either, lest the werewolf took it as a challenge and came to talk to him again. Severus didn't think he could bear talking to him after everything he had said last night. Though he wanted to act as though last night's conversation hadn't taken place, he found it an impossibility. The rude remarks he came up with when Lupin was close got stuck in his throat, all he managed was passive rudeness upon being addressed or looked at: his loathing was still burning very low indeed. He had exposed his feelings to the werewolf, had handed him weapons that Lupin could use against him should he feel that Severus needed a warning. It was infuriating. Severus didn't usually do anything like that, because he knew the dangers it posed.
	But it seemed that Lupin had a way of luring such words out of Severus's mouth, if Severus wanted it or not. Severus had a feeling that Lupin had known what bothered him before Severus had even told him. As though his amber eyes saw things not even Severus's Legilimency could find. It made him avoid Lupin's eyes even more stubbornly. Though he knew that eye contact was probably unnecessary for Lupin's brand of knowing. Severus did not want him to know. But he knew that once again there was a moment when he wouldn't be able to prevent it anymore, and that moment arrived rather more quickly than last time.
	He wished he hadn't invited Lupin to fetch the Wolfsbane, it made him vulnerable once more, for it brought Lupin into his private space again, enabled him to look at his belongings. Perhaps if he entered Lupin's office, he would feel as though he had compensated for Lupin's advantage, but too much friendliness on his part would only encourage the werewolf to think that last night's talk had changed Severus's attitude. He didn't want to give Lupin the impression that he was seeing in him more than a nuisance. That feeling had strengthened rather than lessened. And what Lupin had said about his hatred didn't change his mind all-that-much. Lupin was not a boy anymore, but that boy whom Severus still hated was part of him and if Severus had to pay and to feel guilty for what he had done as a boy, so did Lupin.
	Since the Wolfsbane Potion took rather a long time to make, Severus used the whole morning to brew it, and let it simmer while he was at lunch, tucking in ravenously, for when he worked nothing else could penetrate his mind and he would forget that he was hungry or thirsty. It was a complex enough Potion to try his skill but like every single one of his first attempts, it turned out just perfect. It was green with a putrid smell and a thickly consistency. Despite himself, Severus smirked at the thought of the face Lupin would make when he was told to drink it. It wasn't particularly appetising. Lupin ambled into the Hall when Severus was almost finished with lunch, but he did not smile around like he would usually do and he did not look as nonchalant and at ease as he usually did. His eyes were directed at the floor so Severus dared watch him bite his lip and furrow his brow and mutter to himself, his hands picking at his frayed sleeves. Apparently Lupin was affected by some things.
	was
	But he arrived in Severus's office after lunch, though punctuality usually didn't seem to be his strong point, and knocked politely just as Severus returned from his laboratory with a goblet he had filled to the rim with foul-smelling Potion. Severus cleared his throat and debated with himself for a moment whether he should set the goblet on the table or hand it to Lupin, risking involuntary body contact. Deciding that setting it down was safer, lest it fell to the ground when it was handed over, he straightened his robes, scolding himself and feeling slightly silly for making such a fuss, and found himself nervous and dreading a continuation or mention of the conversation he had had with the werewolf. Pushing it all to the back of his mind, Severus felt as though he hadn't seen Lupin in ages rather than only twenty minutes ago, as he said, "Enter."
	The door opened slowly and Lupin stepped inside, his eyes drifting first over the floor, then round the office to come to rest on Severus's face. He smiled and closed the door behind himself, and as he did so, Severus saw his hand trembling on the doorknob. As he looked at Severus he did not give away any of his apparent anxiety, but his hands did not lie and after a few moments his brow creased a little, though his smile did not waver.
	"Good afternoon, Severus," he said and his politeness did not lessen as he strolled across the room, stopping short of the desk and looking expectantly at Severus. He seemed to notice the goblet but did not take it. Perhaps he was waiting for instructions. Or reassurance. When he received neither, he nodded at the goblet. "Is that it?"
	"Obviously," said Severus, raising an eyebrow at him. "You need to drink it before it turns cold, you may not add anything to improve the taste and you should not eat or drink anything but clear water after you have drunk it. Your next meal will be dinner. Understand?"
	"Oh, yes, I understand," said Lupin vaguely, considering the goblet and waving a hand over it to bring the smoke closer to his nose and inhale it. "Ah, that smell is …" he said then with an apologetic grimace and Severus saw comprehension dawning on his tired face. "You mentioned the taste for a reason, did you not?"
	"I did," said Severus and smirked at Lupin, whose eyes turned to the ceiling as though he was praying for strength. "Drink it and you will find out whether it is as disagreeable as Belby makes out."
	"Well, I suppose I will have to," replied Lupin and as he reached for the Potion with trembling fingers, Severus saw, with an odd jolt in his stomach, that Lupin's eyes gave away his nervousness now as clearly as though he had once more discarded his mask. Was it the unknown that affected him? Was it because he did not know what to expect, because something he had lived with for almost thirty years was now going to change? Severus was intrigued as he watched Lupin raise the goblet to his mouth, then wrinkle his nose and lower it again, taking a few deep breaths through his mouth. "Quick does it, I think," he muttered, and looked rather nauseous as he closed his eyes and touched the goblet to his lips, tilting it to drink the whole in one draught.
	Despite himself, Severus admired Lupin's nerve and wondered how he managed not to retch, for the dose was a big one. The werewolf certainly looked like retching when he set down the goblet, taking deep breaths once more, his eyes screwed up and his hands gripping the back of the chair opposite Severus's. It looked like an enormous effort for Lupin to endure the taste and control the feeling of nausea, and Severus thought that Belby might, after all, have underestimated the taste.
	"Keep it in, Lupin, I only have one dose to spare and I would prefer to save it for an accident," said Severus with some amusement as Lupin banged his fist on the back of the chair he was gripping in an obvious struggle with his stomach. Lupin nodded, though, and opened his eyes, which were watering slightly. He seemed to have won the struggle.
	"I do not believe," he said breathlessly and Severus could not help but appreciate the increased hoarseness of his voice, "that there exist any words to describe how utterly disgusting this is. And I doubt that Belby found any. Sometimes I wonder if it is 'the more disgusting, the better' for you Potioneers or if you just like to see the drinkers suffer."
	"A bit of both in my case," said Severus mockingly, and Lupin chuckled huskily and ran a nervous hand through his greying hair. Severus knew that he didn't feel like chuckling, actually, but his nervousness forced him to.
	"Well, as long as it works," Lupin added after a few moments of composing himself.
	"It does, never fear," said Severus and considered Lupin closely for signs of immediate side effects. But other than Lupin growing even paler from the shock of tasting something so disgusting – Severus tried not to snort with mirth – he seemed perfectly normal. "Should you notice any complications or feel in any way different from usual, report it to me at once."
	Lupin raised his eyebrows and his eyes showed his nervousness even more clearly than before. They were like swirling gold now, reflecting the flickering flames of the torches. "Am I to expect complications?" he asked uncertainly. Severus sneered at him. Ignorant werewolf.
	"In the case of a revolutionary discovery that has not yet been tested on many different subjects, it is always wise to expect the worst," he replied, applying an ominous tone on purpose. Lupin frowned at him. "Oh, you don't need to fear death. Others have taken it and lived. But it could be that you don't react very well to the Potion, in which case I can modify it if possible. There might be certain unpleasant side effects, since the Potion has not been perfected over years but only just been invented. Should you notice anything out of the ordinary, tell me and I shall see if it is within normal parameters or if it is a side effect."
	"I am sure you can find a solution for any problem to do with Potions, so I'm not going to worry too much," said Lupin and indeed, as he looked around once more and back at the empty goblet, some of his anxiety seemed to leave him. Severus tried to push away the surreptitious feeling of satisfaction at Lupin's words. Lupin laid a hand to his stomach and bent over for a moment, making a sound of great discomfort. "I think it was a mistake to drink it in one," he said, but sounded amused this time. "I'll know better tomorrow. When I think about all the things that I now don't have to fear anymore, I feel that a few moments of disgust are a small sacrifice."
	"Good medicine always tastes bitter," said Severus quietly, cleaning the goblet and setting it down on a shelf behind him. He did not know why he was waiting patiently for Lupin to feel ready to leave, instead of just throwing him out, but he could not help himself. When he turned back to the werewolf, his amber eyes were giving him a curious look and Severus felt somewhat trapped, defenceless again, anticipating some unpleasant conversation. Lupin wore that knowing look again. But he did not say anything this time that would have indicated what he knew.
	"True," he replied thoughtfully, giving Severus a vague smile, "and you must know, right, Severus?"
	"That is right," said Severus, narrowing his eyes at Lupin. Then Lupin chuckled and shook his head, straightening up.
	"I suspect that Belby did it on purpose," he said shrewdly, "he is not a werewolf sympathiser at all, as far as I know. I heard it was mere coincidence that he discovered this Potion."
	"Like most revolutionary inventions," said Severus slowly, "but I can assure you that there is nothing to be done about the taste, my improvements of the Potion have, if anything, made it worse. The combination of ingredients creates the effect, the taste is a byproduct, an unpleasant one, admittedly. But not to be changed. Neither Belby, nor I, meant ill by it."
	Giving Severus a twitching smile, Lupin put his hands in his pockets, seemingly at ease again. "Though I do believe you, I cannot help feeling that you would find it very entertaining to torture me with that taste. I can even imagine you making it more disgusting to make me give up on it. But, as I said, I am more stubborn than you."
	"You are right to suspect something like that from me," said Severus silkily, "and I wish I could do it without messing with the Potion, but alas, it is impossible. I do not fancy being blamed for the wreckage of your rooms."
	"I suggested the Shrieking Shack," said Lupin softly, looking around again, "but Albus insisted … it will work for me, won't it? Definitely?" he added seriously and gave Severus a searching, rather stern look. "You said I might not react well, does that include a possible failure of the Potion?"
	Severus wanted to say yes, just so Lupin would take responsibility and leave, after all. But the possibility did not exist and … somehow, he did not feel like lying. The Shrieking Shack was not entirely safe, either, but surely Albus would talk Lupin into staying with the Whomping Willow as his guard. It had been good enough in the past. The werewolf was too happy at Hogwarts to leave now. Too popular, really. What use was it to fight a losing battle with a weak lie?
	"Do not offend me with your lack of confidence in my skill," said Severus instead, and succeeded in injecting some coldness into his voice. "The Potion will work. I was talking of headaches, nausea, insomnia, and the like. Preferably all at once, if I could have a say. But you will stay sane during the full moon. I guarantee it."
	Reassured, Lupin nodded and smiled more freely. "Forgive me. Of course I trust you," he said and Severus gave him an incredulous look that he didn't seem to notice. Silly werewolf, trusting him. "I was a little apprehensive, didn't know what to expect," Lupin went on, chuckling, "but that was rather unspectacular."
	"Did you think that there would be fireworks or smoking nostrils?" asked Severus sarcastically and Lupin shrugged. "Its effect is not immediate, it unfolds over time. I daresay you will feel it after a couple more doses, but being no expert on werewolves and having found nothing in the description of the Potion, I do not know when or how exactly it will manifest itself. You can report it to me for further study. I would love to tell Belby what he missed. He only listed the ultimate effect of sanity in the transformed werewolves. And the Headmaster acquired it from the man himself, which tells us he did not find it necessary to mention anything more."
	Lupin had listened silently and now cocked his head to the side, with the corners of his mouth twitching again. "I will let you know of any changes I notice," he said obligingly. "I thank you very much for your work and your time. I'll have to prepare my next lesson now, please excuse me." And he left with an inclination of his head, closing the door carefully behind him. Severus realised that he had not needed to throw him out, after all. Maybe Lupin did not want to try Severus's patience too much. Or perhaps he had just wanted to be alone with his nervousness after having had his questions answered satisfactorily. But in any case he had left in his wake the blossoming feeling of vulnerability once more. What had he seen in Severus this time?
	If Lupin had really seen something, he did not mention it during the following week. He always arrived for his Potion on time after lunch and drank it fast but in individual gulps, always trying to involve Severus in some short conversation before leaving for his next lesson. Severus did not feel inclined to talk, though, trying to prevent Lupin finding out even more about him, and thus Lupin's visits remained short and quiet, though polite on Lupin's part and tolerant on Severus's. Rudeness, spite, and cruelty did not help against Lupin. Coldness was ineffective. What use was it to try them again and again? It would only frustrate Severus. He couldn't risk another situation like the one in front of the castle, when Lupin had got far too close to him, not only physically.
	The Potion's taste caused Lupin great discomfort and he had assured Severus that it was unlikely that anyone could ever get used to anything so foul. Severus thought that Lupin's sense of taste must have been polluted by too much sugar, and that that was why he was making such a fuss. But he did not deny that the smell at least promised a taste of decaying rabbit. If that was the case, Lupin's resolution was to be admired, for the goblets were big and the taste stayed long in the mouth without anything to wash it down. But Severus was far from admiring him. He gave him to understand that he found it ungrateful of him to complain about the taste all the time, which silenced Lupin effectively, but didn't banish the grimace from his face. Severus heard him complaining to McGonagall instead, who pitied him obediently, and he smirked to himself as he watched the scene. She scolded him later, but Severus did not care.
	On the day before the full moon, Severus saw the nervousness in the werewolf's every movement and heard it in every word he uttered. Lupin knocked over the chair that stood in front of Severus's desk and almost dropped the goblet with Potion when he lifted it to his lips. His voice shook considerably when he laughed about his own clumsiness and apologised, dropping the chair three times before he managed to pick it up and put it back on its legs. Severus considered him silently and when Lupin had drained the goblet, Severus's eyes wandered over his face, the weak smile, the creased brow, and the amber eyes, dull and misty instead of twinkling and clear. Severus caught himself staring into those eyes longingly, wishing back the golden light that usually filled them. Shaking his head at himself, he twirled the goblet between his fingers and after a few seconds' silence he took a deep breath and turned his back on the werewolf, clearing his throat.
	"I shall bring the Potion to your office tomorrow," he said quietly, and as Lupin made a questioning noise he added, "I don't want you to knock over something valuable next time."
	"Oh, right," said Lupin. "Thank you."
	He was rather less inclined to talk today. He seemed a little less himself altogether. Severus wondered if it was the approaching full moon, the Potion, or both. He had no knowledge of the effect the full moon had on werewolves before the transformation. "I also don't want to risk you not being in your rooms in time for nightfall … you are my responsibility, after all. You don't seem too well on your feet at the moment."
	"You needn't worry," said Lupin with a weak smile and took his leave, swaying slightly. Severus thought he was right to worry. But he did not want to.
	After lunch on the following day, Severus ascended the many stairs to Lupin's office at a careful and unusually slow pace, his eyes on the Potion and his surroundings to make sure that he didn't spill anything or have it spilled by a student or Peeves. When he arrived at the door of the werewolf's office, he knocked three times and when he heard a hoarse "Come in," he opened the door and stepped inside.
	"Ah, Severus," smiled Lupin, looking up from some papers he had been brooding over. "Thank you very much for bringing the Potion."
	Severus looked him over, finding his hands shaking as they held the papers, which quivered between his fingers. He looked paler than ever, the rings under his eyes were very dark, his hair lank. His amber eyes were positively bleary now and Severus wondered if he could see properly at all. Inquiring after side effects seemed wise, and Severus was curious as to whether Lupin felt what the Potion was doing or not.
	"You look dreadful," said Severus truthfully and Lupin chuckled huskily, making Severus shiver. He had got used to it by now. "You said you would report anything out of the ordinary."
	"This is not out of the ordinary," said Lupin calmly, getting to his feet. "This is just the full moon taking its toll. I didn't feel any side effects. Every unpleasant feeling I had was just the usual pre-transformation illness. The side effects you mentioned – headaches, nausea, insomnia – all those are symptoms of that illness. If anything, I thought the Potion lessened it a little. I think I reacted quite well to it. I am satisfied, anyway, and I am sure you are to thank. I'm very sorry to disappoint you," he added with an amused smile as he noticed Severus's disgruntled expression. Severus snorted. "You were right, I do feel the effect now. It clears my mind. I wish I understood how it works."
	"It would be no good to explain it," said Severus dismissively, as Lupin walked round his desk and came suddenly very close. "You would not understand the subtle effect of the combination of ingredients and brewing." Lupin stopped at exactly the right distance again and took the goblet out of Severus's hand without touching him. He shook his hair out of his eyes and again Severus could smell his sweet scent but it was gone before he could grasp it.
	"You are right, of course," the werewolf said and carried the Potion back to his desk. When he sat down again, he gave Severus a curious look, cocked his head to the side and smiled. "Would you care for a cup of tea?"
	Severus narrowed his eyes at him, noticing that Lupin was not touching the Potion at all. He raised an eyebrow and gave Lupin an incredulous look. Lupin knew that Severus would not leave without having seen him take the Potion, because it was his responsibility to make sure that Lupin stayed safe. Was Lupin actually prolonging Severus's stay on purpose? Did he actually want him to drink a cup of tea with him? Perhaps that was why he didn't drink the Potion. He knew that he should not eat or drink anything for several hours after drinking it. "Tea?" asked Severus just to make sure he hadn't misheard. He gave his voice a mocking inflection to show his scepticism.
	"Why, yes," said Lupin pleasantly, turning the goblet on the table. "Between colleagues … or Potioneer and patient, whichever you prefer. Don't look at me like that," he chuckled as Severus's expression became disbelieving, "do you find my presence so unbearable?"
	Severus smirked and stepped a little closer. "Yes," he said in a silky voice and enjoyed the flash of unpleasant surprise in Lupin's eyes, that were so dull today. Then he jerked his head at the old kettle that was standing on one of Lupin's shelves. "Yes, why not?" Lupin's face lit up and he tapped the teakettle with his wand, making it steam. Then he took two teabags from a dusty tin and set two chipped cups on the table.
	"Teabags?" Severus sneered, taking the cup from Lupin as he pulled the only chair in front of the desk and sat down. Lupin shrugged with a vague smile.
	"Well, tealeaves are more expensive," he said lightly, "you learn to do without certain luxuries in favour of obtaining other, more important things if you have only limited amounts of gold at your disposal."
	Severus sipped the tea. It couldn't compare to the tealeaves he usually used but it was acceptable. "Those things being?" he asked, looking at the werewolf over the rim of his teacup.
	Lupin smiled slightly still, but his brow creased a little. "Food," he said simply and suddenly Severus felt cold. He stared into his tea. That was something he had never experienced himself. The tolls it took to be a werewolf ...
	He knew he shouldn't have asked Lupin about it. He had known the answer. But what did it matter anyway? "But doing without tea altogether is –"
	"Is impossible," Lupin finished his sentence and laughed a little. "I could never do without my five o'clock tea, it makes my throat less sore." He chuckled his husky chuckle and Severus felt his spine tingling, still staring into his tea in which Lupin was reflected, slightly blurred. "Well, it doesn't really make that much of a difference …" Lupin added, running a hand through his hair and taking a sip of tea himself. The Potion was still standing smoking beside Lupin's hand.
	"Doesn't matter," muttered Severus to himself, taking another gulp of his tea as he let his eyes wander around the office, over the shelves full of books, magazines and papers, registering some untidiness as his gaze fastened on a cage in the corner behind Lupin's desk. There was a Redcap in there, sulking, it seemed, and shooting angry glances at Lupin's back.
	"What did you say?" asked Lupin, and as Severus's eyes found his face again, his amber eyes were considering him quite closely.
	"Nothing," said Severus, and nodded at the Redcap. "Do you always bring Dark creatures to your classes or are you planning on opening a Dark creature zoo?"
	Lupin looked round at the cage and smiled. "I think it's important that they see the real thing whenever possible, not just a picture in a book," he said, scratching his cheek. "It is essential to know how these fellows behave and what they really look like. Though this little chap gave me some trouble when he first arrived. He doesn't like it here." The Redcap emphasised this point by kicking the wires of the cage and snarling angrily at Lupin, who chuckled apologetically. "Don't worry, I'll make it up to you. Drop you at Culloden, you'll love it there."
	The Redcap gave him a look as though sizing him up, then seemed a little more satisfied at the prospect of living in a place of horrible bloodshed. Severus shook his head at the expression on Lupin's face as he considered the Redcap: it was bordering on endearment, almost as though he were looking at a puppy. He seemed to have grown fond of the creature while sharing his office with it. Severus wondered if there would be any room left to move around in the office by the end of the school year. At least the werewolf didn't need a cage to bring himself to class. Severus smirked.
	"I see no moon charts in your office, Lupin," he said as Lupin handed the Redcap a biscuit which it devoured greedily. "Are you hiding them in your rooms?"
	"What?" asked Lupin, slightly bewildered as he turned his attention back to Severus, after having given the creature his cup of tea. "Oh, no, no, I don't need charts. I usually have one at home, but I have a Lunascope to make completely sure."
	"You possess a Lunascope?" asked Severus, surprised that he could afford one.
	"Well, can you imagine anyone who is in more urgent need of one than me?" asked Lupin in amusement. "My father gave it to me when I moved out, he didn't need it anymore with me gone."
	"I see …" said Severus, as Lupin turned to the Potion to finally drink it, and found that it did not annoy him today that he had to spend a longer time in Lupin's presence. He wondered if he could bear this fact and thought that it was perhaps easier if he simply accepted it. He could still dislike Lupin, even when sitting in his office, having tea with him. Though at the moment, the only thing he disliked about the werewolf was, indeed, that he had once been a boy, weak and silent. It was hard to believe that that boy had become this man.
	Severus watched Lupin drink with trembling hands, his eyes closed, his nose wrinkled, and when he set the goblet down to have a break, his eyes flitted in the direction of the sugar bowl. "Disgusting," he muttered in resignation, glancing at Severus, who shook his head.
	"No sugar," said Severus and was amused to see Lupin eying him with some defiant misgivings, "I told you, it makes the Potion useless. I'm not making it up, though you are right to suspect it. The last few doses would have been in vain. But please, it is your decision, give in to temptation …"
	"No, of course not," said Lupin, unsmiling now, and drained the goblet with a violent shudder.
	Severus looked into his tired, ill face and could not help asking. "So you feel the full moon even now?" he inquired, curious if it was just the moon or really the nervousness that made the werewolf so shaky, for they had ascertained that it was not the Potion.
	"Oh, yes, I do," said Lupin, nodding as he pushed the goblet over the table towards Severus. "I feel its attempts to take over my body, and it is wearing me out. My body is preparing for the transformation, though I was never quite sure if the nervousness and the feeling ill is down to the wolf or to my own fear of it. The result is the same, I think. After the full moon I feel better than before the full moon, despite the exhaustion. The power of the moon weakens quickly. The Potion really helps, though. Usually I feel the wolf more strongly in my mind." He smiled again, but gave in to a frown almost at once. "I'm nervous …" he confessed unnecessarily, averting his eyes and focusing them on Severus's now empty teacup.
	Severus hesitated, his eyes wandering over Lupin's pale face. He didn't feel obliged to tell Lupin that everything would go well and actually he didn't even know that it would, but … "Everything will go well," his mouth formed the words before his brain had decided to say them. The werewolf looked up, surprised. Severus got to his feet, having created the urge to leave inside himself by uttering that reassurance. Lupin still looked taken aback as Severus picked up the goblet. "Or do you doubt my skill? I thought I had told you not to offend me," Severus added with a daring look on his face.
	"Of course I don't," said Lupin with an incredulously relieved smile, "you are right, I should not worry. But it is not your skill that I doubt, it is that I don't know what it will be like. How will it feel to be sane inside the wolf's body? How will the different body feel? Will I be able to move around? Will I think like I do now? Will I be fully human or a tame beast? Will it be a relief to be freed from the fear that I might bite, to wake without injuries from my own teeth and claws? Will I feel the ongoing pain of the transformation? Because I always feel it in the morning, back in my own body. I am quite frightened of having to bear it twice."
	Severus found it intriguing that Lupin told him all these private, intimate things, unabashed and frank. It was almost as though he thought that there was a connection between them, created by their conversation on the stone steps and maybe by this odd arrangement that had made them Potioneer and patient, indeed. Even though Severus had never wanted to be a Healer. He was unsure whether he ought to feel awkward or uncomfortable with Lupin's confiding in him. Nobody ever really talked to him like Lupin just had and it felt weirdly satisfying to be trusted like this, even if it was Lupin. That strange feeling was back … and there was a warm sensation in his chest that he did not know the source of. And suddenly, quite involuntarily, he felt connected to Lupin, too. And he didn't think that he wanted that.
	"It is … very painful?" asked Severus, and when their eyes met he knew that Lupin had seen through him again.
	"It is pure agony," said Lupin and he was not smiling. Severus nodded, letting his eyes drift away from Lupin's mild face. He felt strange now. He wished he had not asked, had not listened. Lupin got up and walked to the door, opening it for Severus as though he sensed that Severus would rather leave now. Would really rather not be here.
	Severus stared at Lupin. He couldn't imagine what it felt like to transform like Lupin would that night and he was glad he couldn't. But when his eyes came to rest on the werewolf's hand on the doorknob, and he saw one of the many scars that must be scattered over the rest of Lupin's body as well, he met his eyes again. "I am sure that it will be worth it, I certainly hope that all the time I wasted on that Potion and supervising you was not in vain," he said mockingly and was satisfied when Lupin's face brightened a bit.
	"Thank you, Severus," said Lupin and Severus registered that he had said it rather often lately. And Severus thought that he would never grow tired of hearing it.
	"I shall check up on you tomorrow morning," he said and surprised himself with the wish to do so.
	"If it is not too much trouble," said Lupin and sounded grateful, but for the first time Severus found something like uncomfortable awkwardness in his eyes. Perhaps it was an especially vulnerable situation, the morning after the full moon. Perhaps he did not want to be seen like that, or be helped when he was weak. Perhaps it was his pride, or his dignity. But then he suddenly seemed to appreciate it. "It might be nice if somebody came to look after me. It has been a long time since my father last did that … or Madam Pomfrey. She offered but … I am not a boy anymore, I would not like her to come. With you it is different. I remember how it was when there were still people who cared for me."
	"I shall not treat you like a child," said Severus warningly, wondering what Lupin imagined him to do. Hold his hand? He did not like Lupin to imagine that he cared about him or his well-being. "I shall come to see if you are still alive, that is all."
	"That is all I would expect," smiled Lupin, leaning against the doorframe, "I would not ask for more. But you don't have to, if it is too much to ask."
	"I offered, I wouldn't have if I didn't feel up to it," muttered Severus, feeling uncertain now. But despite his doubts, Lupin seemed to be looking forward to it now. Which only strengthened Severus's uncertainty. He didn't want their connection to strengthen, it was too complicated, too close, too dangerous. It was bad enough that Albus was close to him. It was hard already to keep McGonagall at a distance. But he would not back out now. That would be too undignified. "Expect me sometime after breakfast. Dumbledore made you my responsibility, I shall not neglect it."
	Without waiting for a reply, Severus made his way back to the dungeons. The door closed and something clattered, followed by Lupin's voice groaning. Apparently he had knocked over his own chair this time. Severus smirked a little. When he arrived in his laboratory he put the empty cauldron back into the cupboard after a quick cleaning spell. Over a fire on the worktable, another potion was already simmering, an Invigorating Draught, just in case it was needed in the morning.
	That night Severus couldn't sleep. He told himself that it was because he feared Lupin would break out of his rooms and eat someone, which was, of course, complete nonsense. The silvery light of the full moon fell onto his face and he raised his hand, examining the glow around it, puzzled by the power of the light, immune to the power it had on Lupin. In reality he thought of Lupin and wondered if the werewolf could finally see the full moon with the amber eyes of the human, through the windows of his bedroom.
	
Title: Fortune's MightPairing: SS/RLDisclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.Author's Note: So this chapter marks a pivotal moment in Remus and Severus's relationship. I left a lot of this chapter as it was, while also changing almost everything, if that makes any sense :D. Please enjoy. WTFHP, thank you for your review, I'm glad you enjoy the story, and sorry for making you wait, but I just think slow development the only way for this pic to work ;).Lesson Seven: Amour Propre It was very early in the morning when the first rays of the sun fell through the half-closed curtains of Severus's bedroom windows, causing Severus to groan bad-temperedly and turn over, pulling the blanket over his head. He had got some hours of sleep in the end, but instead of refreshing him they had increased the fatigue and made him rather grumpy indeed. Severus reached under his pillow, fumbling for his wand, and casting a quick spell to close the curtains, shutting out the bright light of the morning. Then he opened his eyes to the semi-darkness and squinted around the room.His first conscious thought was the question if Lupin was already up. Telling himself that he was merely curious as to the effect of the Wolfsbane Potion, he slipped out of bed, stretched, and padded into the bathroom to take a shower. He would certainly not run upstairs at once to make sure that everything was all right. Lupin had only just turned back into a human and would need rest, would not want anyone to intrude. A few weeks ago that would have been a perfect reason to go and disturb him, but now … Maybe Lupin had broken out of his rooms and was going to be sacked. A weak attempt at covering up your weakness, Snape. It was harder to be malicious somehow, since Lupin had told him the details of his transformation. Once again Severus wished he had not listened, had not had tea with him, had not stayed on the stone steps with him, for that had started it. What it was, Severus had not figured out yet.It was strange to suddenly be swarmed by these new feelings for the man whom he had hated so passionately upon his arrival at Hogwarts. That hatred felt rather out of place now, beside all the new emotions that Severus could not give a name yet, did not want to give a name at all. Lupin had not impressed him with his charming kindness or his modest nonchalance, what had confused Severus's loathing had been Lupin's frank understanding, the disclosure of private experiences, the steadfast resoluteness. But he was not ready to admit that the original hatred had lost its basis, was actually only a relic now that was about to fossilise. He did not want it to go away. It was the last barrier between him and Lupin, who had found out so many delicate things about him already. He had been incautious with the werewolf. Had not noticed his subtle way of sneaking into his mind. In future, he'd be prepared.After having brushed his teeth and put on his black robes, Severus entered his laboratory and sniffed the Invigorating Draught, putting out the fire under the cauldron. He poured the potion into five phials, storing four of them away in a cupboard and putting one in his pocket. He left his rooms and walked slowly upstairs to breakfast. Trying to decide whether he should see Lupin before or after his first lesson, Severus sat down at the High Table. Perhaps he should reserve some time for that visit, just in case. Between breakfast and his Gryffindor and Ravenclaw fifth-years he would have mere minutes. Then he grumbled to himself about this thought. Why would he dedicate more time to Lupin than that? But then he did decide to visit him after his first lesson, having a free period and enough time to spare.Albus's eyes twinkled into his direction when he sat down and poured himself some coffee, but Severus tried to ignore him, staring down at his plate and buttering a slice of toast. Unfortunately most of the teachers had not arrived at breakfast yet, which made it easier for the Headmaster to talk to him openly, hands folded on the table."So, Severus?" he asked lightly. "How did it go?"Severus gave a half shrug. "I haven't been up to see him yet," he said, not looking at Albus. "But since there were no violent deaths of students or teachers last night – unfortunately in some cases – I am confident that everything went well." He stabbed his fried egg with his fork and watched the yolk running over the plate as Albus gave him a scolding but curious look."Why haven't you checked up on him yet?" he asked. "I would have thought that you'd want to make sure the Potion worked and that there were no complications."Severus swallowed. "I thought … he would need sleep. I believed it would be better to let him rest for a while longer." The twinkle in Albus's eyes was almost audible now. He laid a hand on Severus's shoulder and got up."That was thoughtful of you Severus. I'm sure Remus will appreciate it. And by the way: the password to his rooms is 'Agnus'," he said quietly and left the Hall. Severus scowled at his retreating back and stabbed his egg again rather forcefully. In the pocket of his robes his hand closed around the phial of potion, which was warm against his cold skin.After he had dismissed the first class of the day, Severus made his way to Lupin's office and, taking a deep breath, knocked three times. No answer was to be heard from within, so he turned the knob and pushed open the door to find the room empty but for the Redcap, snoring in its cage. Suddenly Severus felt as if he had something else to do and couldn't remember why he was in the werewolf's office at all, so he turned to leave, but before he had stepped over the threshold he stopped, reaching inside his robes and touching the phial beside his wand. He rolled his eyes. A Distracting Charm obviously, to keep students away before, after, and – in some cases of curfew breaking – during the full moon. Lupin, of course, understood those rule breakers, having been one himself, and wanted to make absolutely sure that none of them walked in on him.Severus raised his wand and muttered a spell to dismantle the Distracting Charm, closing the door behind himself. He then turned to the left, facing a wall which was completely void of pictures, shelves, and cupboards and said, "Agnus." The grey stone turned into brown wood and a door appeared before Severus, swinging open to admit him. He hesitated for a few moments, sticking his head into the sitting room that had been revealed to him, and called Lupin's name. As Lupin didn't answer Severus entered, pulling the door shut, and walked over to the windows, opening the curtains to let in the sun. Apparently Lupin had not been up yet.Severus cast a searching look round the room and noticed that it was rather different from his own, smaller but also brighter, with more windows along the slightly curved wall that looked out over the grounds. It was warmer up here and Severus thought that it was quite evident, in style and furniture, that they were in one of the towers and not in the dungeons. It was less gothic and definitely cosier. In the short time that Lupin had been living here, he had filled the bookcases of his sitting room with many books, books which were less shabby than his clothes, looking as though the werewolf took very good care of them. Over the fireplace he had pinned a Gryffindor flag and the threadbare old armchair in front of it seemed to be his own, other than the rest of the furniture, which was provided by the castle. Severus found the werewolf's Lunascope on a windowsill, a rather expensive model. But apart from that, Severus couldn't make out any personal accessories such as the photos of friends and family that he had expected to cover the walls.Severus, wand still in hand, walked over to the door that led to the bedroom. It was ajar and he could see a sliver of dim light that illuminated the dusty air in the room. When he pushed the door open wide enough to be able to slip through it, he saw the werewolf's brown-grey hair sticking out from under the blanket, which was wrapped tightly round Lupin's body. With a flick of his wand the curtains and windows flew open and Severus heard the werewolf groan like he himself had groaned earlier that morning. He stepped closer to the bed, always keeping a safety distance, to see if Lupin had woken yet, but it seemed as though he had no intention of doing so, turning away from the light."Lupin, it is almost noon," Severus said loudly. "Wake up!" But the other merely pulled the blanket further up over his head, burying his face in the mattress. Severus sighed and after a moment's hesitation, due to his reluctance to touch the werewolf for the first time, he reached out and shook Lupin's very warm shoulder, which proved to be far more effective. Lupin rolled over onto his back, and running his hands through his disheveled hair, he forced himself to open his eyes, squinting up at Severus with a vague smile."G'morn', Sev'rus," he croaked and Severus drew in a sharp breath at the sight of him."You look terrible," he said and he wasn't exaggerating. Lupin had the darkest of rings under his eyes and his skin was white as snow, he looked as if he hadn't slept in a month, as if he had been fatally injured. But since he chuckled at Severus's statement, he seemed to be fine, as fine as the circumstances permitted, anyway. The werewolf's laugh was disrupted by a coughing fit and he sat up, rubbing his chest, pain clearly written on his face. "How are you feeling? Any complications?" Severus asked and crossed his arms over his chest.Lupin shook his head and cleared his throat. "The Potion worked wonderfully. I feel much better than I usually do, thank you," he said, his voice even hoarser than Severus knew it. "Just tired and … my body hurts from the transformation, it has to go through quite a lot of tearing and bending, after all, but that'll cease sooner or later." He fell back onto his pillow and sighed, his breath rattling and shallow. "It was a singular feeling to be in the body of the wolf with my own mind. I suppose that is how an Animagus must feel." Then he glanced nervously at Severus as if he'd said too much. "I saw the full moon. It was … strange. As if I had finally conquered it. Thanks to you."Severus raised an eyebrow, though he felt a surge of odd pride run through him. "Not at all," he said coolly and put his wand into his pocket, pulling out the potion, removing the stopper. He held the phial out to the werewolf, who reached for it, brushing his fingers against Severus's, making him shiver with their second touch ever. But he didn't take it. Severus looked at him, confused by the way his hand hovered in mid-air as if he were petrified, brows knitted, his amber eyes staring at Severus's left wrist. And then Severus noticed it. His sleeve had shifted when he had stretched out his arm, and had revealed the lower quarter of something that he never let anyone see. He pushed the phial into the werewolf's hand, spilling a few drops of the potion when he whipped away his arm, yanking down his sleeve with his right hand.His eyes flitted to Lupin's face. The werewolf looked taken aback and licked the spilt drops of potion off his hand. His face gained colour immediately and he drank the rest from the phial, looking up at Severus, unconcealed curiosity in his eyes. Severus glowered down at him and folded his arms over his chest again, pressing his left wrist to his ribcage. Lupin averted his eyes, setting the phial down on the nightstand. "Thanks," he smiled, but did not quite manage to act as if he hadn't seen anything.Severus just stood there, unmoving, wanting to leave at once but rooted to the spot. How would Lupin react? What would he say? Or would he pretend that it hadn't happened? Would he talk about it to anybody? The singing of the birds and the buzzing of voices from the grounds were the only sounds to be heard. The silence that stretched between them was uncomfortable. Very uncomfortable. And it was Lupin who broke it."Forgive me," he said quietly, his amber eyes searching Severus's. "Are you ashamed of it? The Dark Mark?" He would not pretend not to have seen. It seemed he could not help himself, though he must know that Severus did not want to talk about it, did not want anyone to know and was close to drawing his wand and Obliviating Lupin. Severus turned his head so he could look out of the window, focusing his eyes on a cloud that was drifting past. He barely moved his lips when he answered."It is … expected of me to be ashamed."He felt Lupin's eyes on him and didn't dare look at him, didn't want to see the disgust he was sure he would find in the werewolf's amber eyes. "But are you, really?" he heard him say, and suddenly he felt angry."Well, I suppose so," he snapped. "It's none of your business anyway!" He whirled round and wanted to pick up the phial and throw it at Lupin, but at the sight of Lupin's eyes he froze. Lupin didn't look disgusted or hateful, he merely gazed at Severus with placid eyes and folded hands."I'm sorry, Severus … but we all have pasts of our own, some darker than others," he said with a small smile. "I think what matters is who you are now. Only that is worth being proud or ashamed of."Severus stared at him. Usually people didn't react like that when they saw the Dark Lord's Mark on his arm. "I chose to become a Death Eater," he said, pressing his right hand to his left forearm on the spot where the Dark Mark was branded into his skin. "I wanted to be one of the Dark Lord's followers!" It had been a long time since he had talked about it like this, since he had admitted it to somebody instead of denying it. Once again Lupin lured things out of his mouth that he had never wanted to utter. Once again he made Severus feel vulnerable. Exposed.Lupin's brow creased. "Yes, you did," he replied calmly. "And then you realised that you'd been wrong and you changed sides … I figure you were the one who became Albus's spy under great risk to your life, weren't you? That is far more glorious than anything I have ever done, being on the right side from the very start."Severus looked at his hand clutching his arm. He wasn't sure what Lupin imagined his reasons to have been. They had not been entirely egoistic but he didn't share the werewolf's opinion. It hadn't been glorious. It had been pathetic and desperate and he had been disgusted with himself. He was still disgusted. Severus looked into Lupin's eyes and felt that strangely familiar feeling welling up inside him again, the one whose name he still didn't remember. The werewolf was the first person who had ever failed to blame him, he seemed to simply ignore the fact that Severus had … had done terrible things, unforgivable things for the Dark Lord. The anger ebbed away and was replaced by something else: it was a painfully good feeling to hear those words from him."Why would you say something like that?" he asked, intrigued once again by how different Lupin was from everybody else Severus had ever met. "You don't know why I changed sides. Why I became Dumbledore's spy. Not to speak of the crimes I committed before that. Until a minute ago you didn't even know that I was a Death Eater! You – you are a Gryffindor, for Merlin's sake! You should be appalled instead of indifferent."Lupin cocked his head to the side and raised his eyebrows. "I say it," the werewolf replied, "because I think that it is true. You deserve the second chance because you have decided to use it well. And I think that it was necessary you heard it. Somebody ought to tell you."Severus stared at him. Could it be? Was Remus Lupin actually trying to erase the shame and the self-loathing inside of Severus, which had been implanted there by all the people who had looked at him with disgust and hatred? It seemed so. And Lupin appeared to be quite serious about it, seemed as though it was important to him to make Severus feel better, not about what he had done as a Death Eater, but about himself and what he had made of his life. As though that redeemed Severus in his eyes. Indeed, as though he wanted to redeem Severus so he could let go of his Dark past and live in the Light with him. And, surprisingly enough, Severus felt a weight becoming lighter that he had not even been aware of carrying. Lupin's head was bent and on his face there was a look of deep pain, the mask discarded, fully this time. Severus frowned and the strange feeling was growing stronger. The werewolf's hands were clutching at the sheets so tightly that his knuckles had turned white."I understand, Severus, better than you can possibly imagine," Lupin muttered and Severus needed a few seconds for the words to sink in before the anger returned."You don't know what you're talking about! How can you even think of comparing our situations?" he snapped and Lupin frowned at him. "You didn't ask a werewolf to bite you! You were a child and it wasn't your fault. I was a grown man and knew what I was doing when I let the Dark Lord Mark me!"Lupin looked surprised. "So you think there's no reason to mistrust me?" he asked calmly but Severus thought he had heard a tiny trace of amazement in the question."I think there is no reason to mistrust a man who always fought for a good cause and was never involved in any Dark business, simply because he happens to be a werewolf," he snarled and turned away. In the corner of his eye, he saw that Lupin now showed his amazement openly on his face – obviously that answer had had an impact on him. Severus suspected that he felt the same painful pleasure that Severus had felt a few minutes ago. Apparently the werewolf wanted to ask him more on that topic, but he seemed to restrain himself under great effort. Severus did not miss that this was the first time he had truly had a visible effect on Lupin. It was strangely gratifying."And I … I think there's no reason to mistrust a man who risked his life as a spy for Dumbledore and gained his trust, saving many lives, simply because he made a mistake in the past," said Lupin then, causing Severus to give him a sceptical look. "Don't misunderstand me. I don't think that choosing to be a Death Eater is a small mistake, but in my humble opinion, your choice to betray Lord Voldemort says much more about who you are. And that's why our situations are quite similar.""Indeed? How so?" Severus growled and folded his arms over his chest again, glowering down at the werewolf for using that name so casually."They mistrust us," replied Lupin quietly, and when Severus gave him a bewildered look, he elaborated, "Those who know our darkest secrets. And it is not important why, what matters is that they don't accept us as their equals, they don't respect us, and no matter how hard we try, we will never be accepted. They turn their backs on us in disgust or hatred and it doesn't matter if they do it because of their prejudice against werewolves, or because they condemn you for choosing the wrong side when you were young and furious. What matters is that it hurts. Maybe we don't pay attention to the pain anymore, maybe we have grown used to it, or maybe we defy it, but it is there, deep down, eating at us," his voice broke and he swallowed, gathering all the strength he seemed to have left, to continue. Severus's eyes never left him and he listened carefully, feeling that this was important. That it meant something. And inside him, deep down, the pain confirmed it."So we hide what they would hate if they knew of it, constantly afraid of our secret being discovered, we can never be ourselves, we can never be close to anybody, lest they find out and desert us – the most painful of rejections. And deep down we loathe ourselves, much more than we loathe those who do this to us. We are ashamed of and disgusted by the marks on our bodies. Just like you would never show the Dark Mark to anyone, I would never show them the scars …"This insight into Lupin's emotions, his life, his suffering, was extraordinarily captivating. But at the same time, Severus did not want to become too immersed, for he sensed that he felt the same, that they were indeed alike, that there was a connection that was not irrational. He did not know if he wanted to be so aware of that. Severus looked at his arm and it was as if he could see through the fabric of his black robes, he could see it vividly before his eyes, burned into the white skin of his forearm, skull and snake, red and ugly. Was it really comparable to Lupin's werewolf-bite scar?"But we needn't feel ashamed. Because we have overcome the prejudice, even though it would have been less difficult to give in to the temptation posed by the easier way. Although no one acknowledges it. Apart from Dumbledore perhaps," Lupin paused and his amber eyes were full of emotion, making Severus lower his own. Lupin was trying to strengthen the wispy connection between them, and Severus knew it was unwise to let it happen. But what could he do? Lupin's words sounded familiar, as though they were thoughts that Severus had always had but never dared to utter. And maybe that was indeed so. Maybe Lupin was right as he said, "Not the differences of our situations are important, they aren't what makes me understand, Severus, but the similarities."Severus closed his eyes and pictured it in his mind, the Dark Mark. It was a stigma that shut him out of society, making it impossible for him to be respected and accepted as who he really was. And no matter how hard he tried to get rid of it, it would never vanish, a constant magical reminder of his pitch-black past. He didn't belong and he didn't feel welcome anywhere. It was, he had to admit to himself, something he had in common with the werewolf. No matter where they were, even in the biggest of crowds, they were alone, isolated. And it would be like that forever. It was then that he realised that they were indeed equals.And then he nodded.Suddenly there was something there between them that resisted all denial. Severus felt as if, for the first time in his life, someone understood how he felt and found words to express it for him. That it had to be the werewolf was pure irony. The pathetic rest of Severus's hatred for Lupin shrank rapidly, no matter how hard he tried to inflate it again, it slipped away and out of sight, and he was lost, unknowing what to feel or do without it. It made him so angry to be helpless like this, to have been robbed of this old, well-known hatred.He snatched the phial from the nightstand, deciding to leave as fast as possible. Maybe if he ran fast enough he could break the connection between them. He wouldn't let the werewolf any further into his head, not to speak of his soul! He couldn't. He knew how those things usually ended: in pain and disappointment. So he turned on his heel and was about to storm out, when Lupin caught his arm."Please, stay," his mild voice said. "Just a little longer."Severus looked at the door and back at the werewolf, unmoving, undecided. He met the werewolf's amber eyes and again he felt his anger ebb away, although he tried to seize it and cling to it to hold on to a familiar, safe feeling, the soothing effect of the werewolf's placid gaze was far too strong. The connection was solid, it seemed, no longer wispy. And it was tempting. He wasn't ready to give in yet but he couldn't deny that he wanted to. The strange feeling returned to his stomach, accompanied by a slight shiver when the werewolf let go of him, deliberately brushing his fingers against Severus's. And although Lupin still was the best friend of Severus's childhood tormentors, he wasn't one of them and Severus decided that that was a good enough reason to allow himself to stop blaming him and being angry with him just for now, and to obey him. Lupin had asked him to stay. And he did. Sitting down on the far end of Lupin's bed."Thank you," said Lupin with a warm smile, but Severus merely made a noncommittal noise in the back of his throat. Lupin cocked his head to the side again and drew breath. Severus was braced for some kind of awkward conversation about feelings and woes, but Lupin surprised him. "Did you know that last night was a Blue Moon?" he asked conversationally, and a bit educationally."Was it now?" asked Severus, trying to sound less relieved than disinterested. Being who he was, he ended up sounding mocking, which was just as well."Oh yes," smiled Lupin, "two full moons in one month. Doesn't cause me more trouble than usual, but it only happens once every few years … Funny that it should happen now. The first full moon you tend to me is special in more than one way. Almost poetic, really."Severus looked searchingly at him but Lupin's smile had not changed in warmth, only the corners of his mouth were twitching like they sometimes would. Severus supposed it to be suppressed amusement, but didn't feel laughed at. It confused him. And he felt somewhat awkward, after all, though he couldn't put his finger on the reason. He cleared his throat and gave Lupin his haughtiest look."If you are only going to babble Gryffindor nonsense," he said silkily, "I might reconsider my decision to stay." As soon as the words had left his mouth he feared retaliation, or that dreaded conversation about feeling and woes … but again Lupin surprised him"Forgive me," chuckled the werewolf, "if you prefer silence, that is fine as well. Your company's enough to make me feel better. Need to rest my voice anyway, to be able to teach again soon.""Fine, then rest it already," muttered Severus and made Lupin chuckle once more, quite huskily."All right, understood," he replied, but didn't sound offended in the slightest.They sat in silence then, comfortably this time. Severus was watching Lupin quietly, his eyes tracing the werewolf's every outline, every tiny little bit of pale, scarred skin that was revealed by the old Muggle shirt he was wearing to bed. The strange, warm feeling growing stronger. Lupin was leaning back against the headboard of his bed, entirely relaxed, a soft, peaceful smile on his lips, eyes closed in exhaustion. No words were needed. It was one of those rare moments, when it was enough to just be. The more time they spent in each other's presence, that much had become clear over the past days, the less animosity Severus felt and the more the strange connection between them unfolded unstoppably. And worst of all, it was tempting, pleasant in an unwanted, threatening way. Severus wondered what the werewolf was feeling at that very moment. Did he … enjoy Severus's company? How could he? How could anyone? But then again, Lupin wasn't just anyone, was he?Once again, Severus felt as though he had given Lupin more information than was strictly sensible, though today he had not said much at all. He knew that Lupin had seen through him again. Severus would never get used to feeling so vulnerable, but at the same time he felt lighter. Lupin had actually helped Severus to think a little better of himself, if only for now, if only because Lupin had said that there was no need for his self-loathing – and maybe Severus had done the same for Lupin without meaning to. What had happened here today, between the two of them, was rare, indeed. Perhaps it was even special. Lupin's company was oddly soothing, so soothing, indeed, that Severus felt all the emotions that usually filled him on a normal school day return to his body almost violently when the time of his departure approached. It was unsettling and he was painfully aware that it would bother him for a long time, would occupy his mind and unnerve him. He cursed Albus for doing this to him. For confronting him with this man, who got to Severus like no other.When Severus left to make it to the dungeons in time for his next lesson he thought he heard Lupin mutter to himself in something of a slurred singsong, "Once in a Blue Moon … we may find the right one … We'd certainly deserve it."And Severus thought that might have been Dumbledore's insolent thinking, too.

	Title: Fortune's Might
	Title:
	 Fortune's Might
	Pairing: SS/RL
	Pairing:
	Disclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.
	Disclaimer
	Author's Note: So this chapter marks a pivotal moment in Remus and Severus's relationship. I left a lot of this chapter as it was, while also changing almost everything, if that makes any sense :D. Please enjoy. WTFHP, thank you for your review, I'm glad you enjoy the story, and sorry for making you wait, but I just think slow development the only way for this pic to work ;).
	Author's Note
	
	Lesson Seven: Amour Propre 
	Lesson Seven: Amour Propre 
	It was very early in the morning when the first rays of the sun fell through the half-closed curtains of Severus's bedroom windows, causing Severus to groan bad-temperedly and turn over, pulling the blanket over his head. He had got some hours of sleep in the end, but instead of refreshing him they had increased the fatigue and made him rather grumpy indeed. Severus reached under his pillow, fumbling for his wand, and casting a quick spell to close the curtains, shutting out the bright light of the morning. Then he opened his eyes to the semi-darkness and squinted around the room.
	His first conscious thought was the question if Lupin was already up. Telling himself that he was merely curious as to the effect of the Wolfsbane Potion, he slipped out of bed, stretched, and padded into the bathroom to take a shower. He would certainly not run upstairs at once to make sure that everything was all right. Lupin had only just turned back into a human and would need rest, would not want anyone to intrude. A few weeks ago that would have been a perfect reason to go and disturb him, but now … Maybe Lupin had broken out of his rooms and was going to be sacked. A weak attempt at covering up your weakness, Snape. It was harder to be malicious somehow, since Lupin had told him the details of his transformation. Once again Severus wished he had not listened, had not had tea with him, had not stayed on the stone steps with him, for that had started it. What it was, Severus had not figured out yet.
	A weak attempt at covering up your weakness, Snape.
	It was strange to suddenly be swarmed by these new feelings for the man whom he had hated so passionately upon his arrival at Hogwarts. That hatred felt rather out of place now, beside all the new emotions that Severus could not give a name yet, did not want to give a name at all. Lupin had not impressed him with his charming kindness or his modest nonchalance, what had confused Severus's loathing had been Lupin's frank understanding, the disclosure of private experiences, the steadfast resoluteness. But he was not ready to admit that the original hatred had lost its basis, was actually only a relic now that was about to fossilise. He did not want it to go away. It was the last barrier between him and Lupin, who had found out so many delicate things about him already. He had been incautious with the werewolf. Had not noticed his subtle way of sneaking into his mind. In future, he'd be prepared.
	After having brushed his teeth and put on his black robes, Severus entered his laboratory and sniffed the Invigorating Draught, putting out the fire under the cauldron. He poured the potion into five phials, storing four of them away in a cupboard and putting one in his pocket. He left his rooms and walked slowly upstairs to breakfast. Trying to decide whether he should see Lupin before or after his first lesson, Severus sat down at the High Table. Perhaps he should reserve some time for that visit, just in case. Between breakfast and his Gryffindor and Ravenclaw fifth-years he would have mere minutes. Then he grumbled to himself about this thought. Why would he dedicate more time to Lupin than that? But then he did decide to visit him after his first lesson, having a free period and enough time to spare.
	Albus's eyes twinkled into his direction when he sat down and poured himself some coffee, but Severus tried to ignore him, staring down at his plate and buttering a slice of toast. Unfortunately most of the teachers had not arrived at breakfast yet, which made it easier for the Headmaster to talk to him openly, hands folded on the table.
	"So, Severus?" he asked lightly. "How did it go?"
	Severus gave a half shrug. "I haven't been up to see him yet," he said, not looking at Albus. "But since there were no violent deaths of students or teachers last night – unfortunately in some cases – I am confident that everything went well." He stabbed his fried egg with his fork and watched the yolk running over the plate as Albus gave him a scolding but curious look.
	"Why haven't you checked up on him yet?" he asked. "I would have thought that you'd want to make sure the Potion worked and that there were no complications."
	Severus swallowed. "I thought … he would need sleep. I believed it would be better to let him rest for a while longer." The twinkle in Albus's eyes was almost audible now. He laid a hand on Severus's shoulder and got up.
	"That was thoughtful of you Severus. I'm sure Remus will appreciate it. And by the way: the password to his rooms is 'Agnus'," he said quietly and left the Hall. Severus scowled at his retreating back and stabbed his egg again rather forcefully. In the pocket of his robes his hand closed around the phial of potion, which was warm against his cold skin.
	A
	gnus
	After he had dismissed the first class of the day, Severus made his way to Lupin's office and, taking a deep breath, knocked three times. No answer was to be heard from within, so he turned the knob and pushed open the door to find the room empty but for the Redcap, snoring in its cage. Suddenly Severus felt as if he had something else to do and couldn't remember why he was in the werewolf's office at all, so he turned to leave, but before he had stepped over the threshold he stopped, reaching inside his robes and touching the phial beside his wand. He rolled his eyes. A Distracting Charm obviously, to keep students away before, after, and – in some cases of curfew breaking – during the full moon. Lupin, of course, understood those rule breakers, having been one himself, and wanted to make absolutely sure that none of them walked in on him.
	Severus raised his wand and muttered a spell to dismantle the Distracting Charm, closing the door behind himself. He then turned to the left, facing a wall which was completely void of pictures, shelves, and cupboards and said, "Agnus." The grey stone turned into brown wood and a door appeared before Severus, swinging open to admit him. He hesitated for a few moments, sticking his head into the sitting room that had been revealed to him, and called Lupin's name. As Lupin didn't answer Severus entered, pulling the door shut, and walked over to the windows, opening the curtains to let in the sun. Apparently Lupin had not been up yet.
	Agnus
	Severus cast a searching look round the room and noticed that it was rather different from his own, smaller but also brighter, with more windows along the slightly curved wall that looked out over the grounds. It was warmer up here and Severus thought that it was quite evident, in style and furniture, that they were in one of the towers and not in the dungeons. It was less gothic and definitely cosier. In the short time that Lupin had been living here, he had filled the bookcases of his sitting room with many books, books which were less shabby than his clothes, looking as though the werewolf took very good care of them. Over the fireplace he had pinned a Gryffindor flag and the threadbare old armchair in front of it seemed to be his own, other than the rest of the furniture, which was provided by the castle. Severus found the werewolf's Lunascope on a windowsill, a rather expensive model. But apart from that, Severus couldn't make out any personal accessories such as the photos of friends and family that he had expected to cover the walls.
	Severus, wand still in hand, walked over to the door that led to the bedroom. It was ajar and he could see a sliver of dim light that illuminated the dusty air in the room. When he pushed the door open wide enough to be able to slip through it, he saw the werewolf's brown-grey hair sticking out from under the blanket, which was wrapped tightly round Lupin's body. With a flick of his wand the curtains and windows flew open and Severus heard the werewolf groan like he himself had groaned earlier that morning. He stepped closer to the bed, always keeping a safety distance, to see if Lupin had woken yet, but it seemed as though he had no intention of doing so, turning away from the light.
	"Lupin, it is almost noon," Severus said loudly. "Wake up!" But the other merely pulled the blanket further up over his head, burying his face in the mattress. Severus sighed and after a moment's hesitation, due to his reluctance to touch the werewolf for the first time, he reached out and shook Lupin's very warm shoulder, which proved to be far more effective. Lupin rolled over onto his back, and running his hands through his disheveled hair, he forced himself to open his eyes, squinting up at Severus with a vague smile.
	"G'morn', Sev'rus," he croaked and Severus drew in a sharp breath at the sight of him.
	"You look terrible," he said and he wasn't exaggerating. Lupin had the darkest of rings under his eyes and his skin was white as snow, he looked as if he hadn't slept in a month, as if he had been fatally injured. But since he chuckled at Severus's statement, he seemed to be fine, as fine as the circumstances permitted, anyway. The werewolf's laugh was disrupted by a coughing fit and he sat up, rubbing his chest, pain clearly written on his face. "How are you feeling? Any complications?" Severus asked and crossed his arms over his chest.
	Lupin shook his head and cleared his throat. "The Potion worked wonderfully. I feel much better than I usually do, thank you," he said, his voice even hoarser than Severus knew it. "Just tired and … my body hurts from the transformation, it has to go through quite a lot of tearing and bending, after all, but that'll cease sooner or later." He fell back onto his pillow and sighed, his breath rattling and shallow. "It was a singular feeling to be in the body of the wolf with my own mind. I suppose that is how an Animagus must feel." Then he glanced nervously at Severus as if he'd said too much. "I saw the full moon. It was … strange. As if I had finally conquered it. Thanks to you."
	Severus raised an eyebrow, though he felt a surge of odd pride run through him. "Not at all," he said coolly and put his wand into his pocket, pulling out the potion, removing the stopper. He held the phial out to the werewolf, who reached for it, brushing his fingers against Severus's, making him shiver with their second touch ever. But he didn't take it. Severus looked at him, confused by the way his hand hovered in mid-air as if he were petrified, brows knitted, his amber eyes staring at Severus's left wrist. And then Severus noticed it. His sleeve had shifted when he had stretched out his arm, and had revealed the lower quarter of something that he never let anyone see. He pushed the phial into the werewolf's hand, spilling a few drops of the potion when he whipped away his arm, yanking down his sleeve with his right hand.
	His eyes flitted to Lupin's face. The werewolf looked taken aback and licked the spilt drops of potion off his hand. His face gained colour immediately and he drank the rest from the phial, looking up at Severus, unconcealed curiosity in his eyes. Severus glowered down at him and folded his arms over his chest again, pressing his left wrist to his ribcage. Lupin averted his eyes, setting the phial down on the nightstand. "Thanks," he smiled, but did not quite manage to act as if he hadn't seen anything.
	Severus just stood there, unmoving, wanting to leave at once but rooted to the spot. How would Lupin react? What would he say? Or would he pretend that it hadn't happened? Would he talk about it to anybody? The singing of the birds and the buzzing of voices from the grounds were the only sounds to be heard. The silence that stretched between them was uncomfortable. Very uncomfortable. And it was Lupin who broke it.
	"Forgive me," he said quietly, his amber eyes searching Severus's. "Are you ashamed of it? The Dark Mark?" He would not pretend not to have seen. It seemed he could not help himself, though he must know that Severus did not want to talk about it, did not want anyone to know and was close to drawing his wand and Obliviating Lupin. Severus turned his head so he could look out of the window, focusing his eyes on a cloud that was drifting past. He barely moved his lips when he answered.
	"It is … expected of me to be ashamed."
	He felt Lupin's eyes on him and didn't dare look at him, didn't want to see the disgust he was sure he would find in the werewolf's amber eyes. "But are you, really?" he heard him say, and suddenly he felt angry.
	"Well, I suppose so," he snapped. "It's none of your business anyway!" He whirled round and wanted to pick up the phial and throw it at Lupin, but at the sight of Lupin's eyes he froze. Lupin didn't look disgusted or hateful, he merely gazed at Severus with placid eyes and folded hands.
	"I'm sorry, Severus … but we all have pasts of our own, some darker than others," he said with a small smile. "I think what matters is who you are now. Only that is worth being proud or ashamed of."
	Severus stared at him. Usually people didn't react like that when they saw the Dark Lord's Mark on his arm. "I chose to become a Death Eater," he said, pressing his right hand to his left forearm on the spot where the Dark Mark was branded into his skin. "I wanted to be one of the Dark Lord's followers!" It had been a long time since he had talked about it like this, since he had admitted it to somebody instead of denying it. Once again Lupin lured things out of his mouth that he had never wanted to utter. Once again he made Severus feel vulnerable. Exposed.
	Lupin's brow creased. "Yes, you did," he replied calmly. "And then you realised that you'd been wrong and you changed sides … I figure you were the one who became Albus's spy under great risk to your life, weren't you? That is far more glorious than anything I have ever done, being on the right side from the very start."
	Severus looked at his hand clutching his arm. He wasn't sure what Lupin imagined his reasons to have been. They had not been entirely egoistic but he didn't share the werewolf's opinion. It hadn't been glorious. It had been pathetic and desperate and he had been disgusted with himself. He was still disgusted. Severus looked into Lupin's eyes and felt that strangely familiar feeling welling up inside him again, the one whose name he still didn't remember. The werewolf was the first person who had ever failed to blame him, he seemed to simply ignore the fact that Severus had … had done terrible things, unforgivable things for the Dark Lord. The anger ebbed away and was replaced by something else: it was a painfully good feeling to hear those words from him.
	"Why would you say something like that?" he asked, intrigued once again by how different Lupin was from everybody else Severus had ever met. "You don't know why I changed sides. Why I became Dumbledore's spy. Not to speak of the crimes I committed before that. Until a minute ago you didn't even know that I was a Death Eater! You – you are a Gryffindor, for Merlin's sake! You should be appalled instead of indifferent."
	Lupin cocked his head to the side and raised his eyebrows. "I say it," the werewolf replied, "because I think that it is true. You deserve the second chance because you have decided to use it well. And I think that it was necessary you heard it. Somebody ought to tell you."
	Severus stared at him. Could it be? Was Remus Lupin actually trying to erase the shame and the self-loathing inside of Severus, which had been implanted there by all the people who had looked at him with disgust and hatred? It seemed so. And Lupin appeared to be quite serious about it, seemed as though it was important to him to make Severus feel better, not about what he had done as a Death Eater, but about himself and what he had made of his life. As though that redeemed Severus in his eyes. Indeed, as though he wanted to redeem Severus so he could let go of his Dark past and live in the Light with him. And, surprisingly enough, Severus felt a weight becoming lighter that he had not even been aware of carrying. Lupin's head was bent and on his face there was a look of deep pain, the mask discarded, fully this time. Severus frowned and the strange feeling was growing stronger. The werewolf's hands were clutching at the sheets so tightly that his knuckles had turned white.
	"I understand, Severus, better than you can possibly imagine," Lupin muttered and Severus needed a few seconds for the words to sink in before the anger returned.
	"You don't know what you're talking about! How can you even think of comparing our situations?" he snapped and Lupin frowned at him. "You didn't ask a werewolf to bite you! You were a child and it wasn't your fault. I was a grown man and knew what I was doing when I let the Dark Lord Mark me!"
	Lupin looked surprised. "So you think there's no reason to mistrust me?" he asked calmly but Severus thought he had heard a tiny trace of amazement in the question.
	"I think there is no reason to mistrust a man who always fought for a good cause and was never involved in any Dark business, simply because he happens to be a werewolf," he snarled and turned away. In the corner of his eye, he saw that Lupin now showed his amazement openly on his face – obviously that answer had had an impact on him. Severus suspected that he felt the same painful pleasure that Severus had felt a few minutes ago. Apparently the werewolf wanted to ask him more on that topic, but he seemed to restrain himself under great effort. Severus did not miss that this was the first time he had truly had a visible effect on Lupin. It was strangely gratifying.
	"And I … I think there's no reason to mistrust a man who risked his life as a spy for Dumbledore and gained his trust, saving many lives, simply because he made a mistake in the past," said Lupin then, causing Severus to give him a sceptical look. "Don't misunderstand me. I don't think that choosing to be a Death Eater is a small mistake, but in my humble opinion, your choice to betray Lord Voldemort says much more about who you are. And that's why our situations are quite similar."
	"Indeed? How so?" Severus growled and folded his arms over his chest again, glowering down at the werewolf for using that name so casually.
	that name
	"They mistrust us," replied Lupin quietly, and when Severus gave him a bewildered look, he elaborated, "Those who know our darkest secrets. And it is not important why, what matters is that they don't accept us as their equals, they don't respect us, and no matter how hard we try, we will never be accepted. They turn their backs on us in disgust or hatred and it doesn't matter if they do it because of their prejudice against werewolves, or because they condemn you for choosing the wrong side when you were young and furious. What matters is that it hurts. Maybe we don't pay attention to the pain anymore, maybe we have grown used to it, or maybe we defy it, but it is there, deep down, eating at us," his voice broke and he swallowed, gathering all the strength he seemed to have left, to continue. Severus's eyes never left him and he listened carefully, feeling that this was important. That it meant something. And inside him, deep down, the pain confirmed it.
	meant
	"So we hide what they would hate if they knew of it, constantly afraid of our secret being discovered, we can never be ourselves, we can never be close to anybody, lest they find out and desert us – the most painful of rejections. And deep down we loathe ourselves, much more than we loathe those who do this to us. We are ashamed of and disgusted by the marks on our bodies. Just like you would never show the Dark Mark to anyone, I would never show them the scars …"
	This insight into Lupin's emotions, his life, his suffering, was extraordinarily captivating. But at the same time, Severus did not want to become too immersed, for he sensed that he felt the same, that they were indeed alike, that there was a connection that was not irrational. He did not know if he wanted to be so aware of that. Severus looked at his arm and it was as if he could see through the fabric of his black robes, he could see it vividly before his eyes, burned into the white skin of his forearm, skull and snake, red and ugly. Was it really comparable to Lupin's werewolf-bite scar?
	"But we needn't feel ashamed. Because we have overcome the prejudice, even though it would have been less difficult to give in to the temptation posed by the easier way. Although no one acknowledges it. Apart from Dumbledore perhaps," Lupin paused and his amber eyes were full of emotion, making Severus lower his own. Lupin was trying to strengthen the wispy connection between them, and Severus knew it was unwise to let it happen. But what could he do? Lupin's words sounded familiar, as though they were thoughts that Severus had always had but never dared to utter. And maybe that was indeed so. Maybe Lupin was right as he said, "Not the differences of our situations are important, they aren't what makes me understand, Severus, but the similarities."
	Severus closed his eyes and pictured it in his mind, the Dark Mark. It was a stigma that shut him out of society, making it impossible for him to be respected and accepted as who he really was. And no matter how hard he tried to get rid of it, it would never vanish, a constant magical reminder of his pitch-black past. He didn't belong and he didn't feel welcome anywhere. It was, he had to admit to himself, something he had in common with the werewolf. No matter where they were, even in the biggest of crowds, they were alone, isolated. And it would be like that forever. It was then that he realised that they were indeed equals.
	And then he nodded.
	Suddenly there was something there between them that resisted all denial. Severus felt as if, for the first time in his life, someone understood how he felt and found words to express it for him. That it had to be the werewolf was pure irony. The pathetic rest of Severus's hatred for Lupin shrank rapidly, no matter how hard he tried to inflate it again, it slipped away and out of sight, and he was lost, unknowing what to feel or do without it. It made him so angry to be helpless like this, to have been robbed of this old, well-known hatred.
	He snatched the phial from the nightstand, deciding to leave as fast as possible. Maybe if he ran fast enough he could break the connection between them. He wouldn't let the werewolf any further into his head, not to speak of his soul! He couldn't. He knew how those things usually ended: in pain and disappointment. So he turned on his heel and was about to storm out, when Lupin caught his arm.
	"Please, stay," his mild voice said. "Just a little longer."
	Severus looked at the door and back at the werewolf, unmoving, undecided. He met the werewolf's amber eyes and again he felt his anger ebb away, although he tried to seize it and cling to it to hold on to a familiar, safe feeling, the soothing effect of the werewolf's placid gaze was far too strong. The connection was solid, it seemed, no longer wispy. And it was tempting. He wasn't ready to give in yet but he couldn't deny that he wanted to. The strange feeling returned to his stomach, accompanied by a slight shiver when the werewolf let go of him, deliberately brushing his fingers against Severus's. And although Lupin still was the best friend of Severus's childhood tormentors, he wasn't one of them and Severus decided that that was a good enough reason to allow himself to stop blaming him and being angry with him just for now, and to obey him. Lupin had asked him to stay. And he did. Sitting down on the far end of Lupin's bed.
	"Thank you," said Lupin with a warm smile, but Severus merely made a noncommittal noise in the back of his throat. Lupin cocked his head to the side again and drew breath. Severus was braced for some kind of awkward conversation about feelings and woes, but Lupin surprised him. "Did you know that last night was a Blue Moon?" he asked conversationally, and a bit educationally.
	"Was it now?" asked Severus, trying to sound less relieved than disinterested. Being who he was, he ended up sounding mocking, which was just as well.
	"Oh yes," smiled Lupin, "two full moons in one month. Doesn't cause me more trouble than usual, but it only happens once every few years … Funny that it should happen now. The first full moon you tend to me is special in more than one way. Almost poetic, really."
	Severus looked searchingly at him but Lupin's smile had not changed in warmth, only the corners of his mouth were twitching like they sometimes would. Severus supposed it to be suppressed amusement, but didn't feel laughed at. It confused him. And he felt somewhat awkward, after all, though he couldn't put his finger on the reason. He cleared his throat and gave Lupin his haughtiest look.
	"If you are only going to babble Gryffindor nonsense," he said silkily, "I might reconsider my decision to stay." As soon as the words had left his mouth he feared retaliation, or that dreaded conversation about feeling and woes … but again Lupin surprised him
	"Forgive me," chuckled the werewolf, "if you prefer silence, that is fine as well. Your company's enough to make me feel better. Need to rest my voice anyway, to be able to teach again soon."
	"Fine, then rest it already," muttered Severus and made Lupin chuckle once more, quite huskily.
	"All right, understood," he replied, but didn't sound offended in the slightest.
	They sat in silence then, comfortably this time. Severus was watching Lupin quietly, his eyes tracing the werewolf's every outline, every tiny little bit of pale, scarred skin that was revealed by the old Muggle shirt he was wearing to bed. The strange, warm feeling growing stronger. Lupin was leaning back against the headboard of his bed, entirely relaxed, a soft, peaceful smile on his lips, eyes closed in exhaustion. No words were needed. It was one of those rare moments, when it was enough to just be. The more time they spent in each other's presence, that much had become clear over the past days, the less animosity Severus felt and the more the strange connection between them unfolded unstoppably. And worst of all, it was tempting, pleasant in an unwanted, threatening way. Severus wondered what the werewolf was feeling at that very moment. Did he … enjoy Severus's company? How could he? How could anyone? But then again, Lupin wasn't just anyone, was he?
	be
	Once again, Severus felt as though he had given Lupin more information than was strictly sensible, though today he had not said much at all. He knew that Lupin had seen through him again. Severus would never get used to feeling so vulnerable, but at the same time he felt lighter. Lupin had actually helped Severus to think a little better of himself, if only for now, if only because Lupin had said that there was no need for his self-loathing – and maybe Severus had done the same for Lupin without meaning to. What had happened here today, between the two of them, was rare, indeed. Perhaps it was even special. Lupin's company was oddly soothing, so soothing, indeed, that Severus felt all the emotions that usually filled him on a normal school day return to his body almost violently when the time of his departure approached. It was unsettling and he was painfully aware that it would bother him for a long time, would occupy his mind and unnerve him. He cursed Albus for doing this to him. For confronting him with this man, who got to Severus like no other.
	When Severus left to make it to the dungeons in time for his next lesson he thought he heard Lupin mutter to himself in something of a slurred singsong, "Once in a Blue Moon … we may find the right one … We'd certainly deserve it."
	And Severus thought that might have been Dumbledore's insolent thinking, too.
	
Title: Fortune's MightPairing: SS/RLDisclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.Author's Note: I've not much time today, but I wanted to say thank you to all my new readers and followers. I hope you enjoy the new chapter.Lesson Eight: Old Wounds Severus didn't see Lupin again until lunch on the following day. He looked worn still, but much better than after the full moon. Severus wanted to avoid eye contact but at the same time he just couldn't help glancing down the table now and then, and when Lupin noticed his eyes on him he looked up and smiled, inclining his head in a gesture of greeting. Severus stared at him for a few moments, unable to take his eyes off the werewolf, before he managed to pull them away, scowling at his chicken.He felt strange. Ever since he had left Lupin's office yesterday, confusion and uncertainty had been following him everywhere. And he couldn't say that he was very good at coping with this sort of inner indecision and vulnerable chaos that was all Lupin's fault. On the one hand, he held a grudge against the werewolf for never helping him at school, for being friends with Black and Potter, and for almost having eaten him on purpose in their fifth year. On the other hand … Severus had no words for everything on the other hand. It was so confusing, so intense and so profound, that it almost scared him. Though he'd never admit to it. Lupin seemed to be able to sneak past his defences and make it feel … something like pleasant … or at least less painful, definitely relieving. There was something happening between them. Severus wasn't sure he wanted it to happen. But what was it? Severus didn't dare give it a name to classify it. It was too great for classification. There was a connection. But did Lupin feel about it like Severus did? Did he feel vulnerable? If so, he didn't let it show. He seemed quite normal. He seemed his nonchalant, self-confident self. But wasn't that at least partly a mask, too? Hadn't Lupin revealed yesterday what he truly felt? Hadn't he admitted that he felt like Severus about some things at least?Severus glanced down the table again and started when he saw that Lupin had been anticipating it, his amber eyes twinkling golden in the sunlight that fell into the Great Hall from the enchanted ceiling, his smile still in place. It sent a shiver down Severus's spine and he turned quickly away. The shivers were different now. Deeper somehow. Right to the bone. Suddenly he felt warm and cursed the werewolf silently. He couldn't let him continue to sneak past his defensive walls. The thought disquieted him. As did the fact that a tiny little voice inside him did want to let Lupin in. He didn't have names for his feelings for the werewolf, he only knew that hatred wasn't among them anymore. Those feelings were painful and pleasant at the same time, and he didn't know whether he enjoyed or loathed them. Whether he wanted to risk letting them unfold or to recoil before the danger. He heard Lupin's soft, husky chuckle from the other side of the table and felt thrilled by the sensation it incited in him. A tingling that travelled through his whole body. He felt that his face was flushed and tried to fight it down but couldn't. His body betrayed him and it was all he could do not to leave the Hall to be alone with it.He finished his lunch quickly and left as fast as possible without making the impression of running away. When he was clear of the Hall, he started running, straight to the cold dungeons, hoping that the chill would cool him down. In his rooms, he collapsed onto his sofa and let his head fall back with an exasperated sigh. Slowly but gradually, and with surreptitious cleverness, Lupin had crawled under Severus's skin to make himself at home. Lupin had been right, he was not the boy Severus had hated. And it was impossible to deny now that this was attraction, the shivering, the captivation, the appreciation of Lupin's looks and the way he moved and talked and looked past the surface unlike most dunderheads Severus knew, the admiration of the way Lupin stood his ground, and the fascination with his personality. He was ashamed of himself. He had let the werewolf get to him. The werewolf of all people. He stared at the ceiling, eyes half closed, and remembered the peaceful smile he had seen on Lupin's lips yesterday. He couldn't help it. Now that the feeling was there, all he could do was ignore it. Try to forget it.Severus was careful not to cultivate such feelings, it was too much of a risk. Betrayal, lies, disappointment, and of course regret. Those were the things that hid behind such emotions, they were the feelings one had to expect when indulging in foolish sentimentalities. When connecting with another human being and letting them come too close. And he had sworn to himself, long ago, that he'd never again be so stupid to let anyone get close enough to him to be in the position to make him experience those feelings. He was tired of those feelings. He could not bear them. Close interpersonal relationships meant trouble and suffering, so he had decided to have none. Albus didn't count.And since he was no naïve Gryffindor, searching for romance, sitting on a white steed in a shining armour, galloping through a – to cut a long story short: he was a Slytherin. And Slytherins did not indulge in sentimental feelings, least of all with Gryffindors. Letting it happen with this Gryffindor in particular was absolutely unthinkable. Severus rubbed his eyes. It was hard to keep to this reasoning and hide behind his house when he was in Lupin's presence. Which meant that there was only one way of dealing with it. There could be no more private exchanges. He would have to stop giving Lupin opportunities to catch him alone and start a conversation.Over the following days, Severus started avoiding and ignoring the werewolf again. Whenever he saw Lupin approaching him or heard his voice, he turned on his heel and took a detour to go out of his way. The only occasions when he couldn't do so were the meals in the Great Hall. He didn't look down the table anymore, didn't glance at Lupin, and tried not to strain his ears when he heard him talk, since he rarely heard him laugh anymore. Already after the first day of silence he sensed the werewolf's eyes on him during meals, and he felt an uncomfortable tingling where his eyes fixed him. And on the third day, he was quite sure of that, he had stopped hearing his chuckle. And, Merlin, he missed it! It was so annoying! Most of the time, all Severus did was glare at his food, as if it were at fault for everything.Of course Albus noticed that something was up, at the very last when Severus glared after Lupin one night, watching him leave the castle with McGonagall, apparently for a drink in the Three Broomsticks. She had invited him because she thought the stress and pressure of being a teacher was making him quiet and much less cheerful than he had used to be. Severus, of course, knew that it was his silence that had this effect on Lupin, and though it was satisfying that he could achieve such an effect at all, an effect his rudeness and snide remarks had never had, Severus did not like the temptation it posed to just go after them and join them in Hogsmeade. He never did anything like that. He did not usually look for company. Lupin's company was different, but he had decided not to seek it. Surely Lupin would forget him while connecting with McGonagall over some mulled mead. And that thought annoyed Severus despite everything.Albus walked up behind Severus as Lupin closed the front doors behind him without noticing that Severus was watching. Albus's hand came to rest on Severus's shoulder and Severus turned, shrugging it off. He did not want to show Albus that he was feeling horridly ordinary now that he saw that Lupin was connecting with others, too, was probably listening to their tragic stories, too, because it was in his nature to take interest in them. Severus had believed that he was the only one Lupin felt closely connected to, he had said they were alike. Had he only said it to twist Severus round his finger? It hadn't felt like it. Severus's glare darkened."Is everything all right, Severus?" asked Albus and Severus snapped out of his thoughts. "You seem rather less sociable even than usual, lately.""Get to the point, Headmaster," snarled Severus, glancing at the front doors. He should feel relieved that somebody was distracting Lupin from him, but he didn't. He felt indignant."Well … did anything happen between you and Remus?" said Albus tentatively, a frown on his face.Severus stared at him. What in Salazar's name was he suggesting? "Of course not!" he snapped and crossed his arms over his chest, trying not to flush.Albus surveyed him over his half-moon spectacles. "So you didn't have another row?" he asked quietly. "I thought you did, because whenever you are near or your name is mentioned he seems a little subdued."Severus was still staring. Oh, that was what he'd been suggesting. Why on earth had he suspected something else? He shook his head more to himself than at Albus. "There was nothing.""Well, but something must have happened," said Albus shrewdly. "Since the full moon you've been distancing yourself from him, even though, as he told me, you were very kind to him.""I only did my job," said Severus coldly, feeling odd when being referred to as kind, "in-between full moons I want him to leave me alone.""I don't know if he is aware of that," replied Albus and he was smiling slightly. "He seems to be under the impression that you have overcome your differences.""Then he is wrong," retorted Severus, averting his eyes and glancing again at the front doors."So something has happened … would you like to talk about it?" Albus asked with a twinkle in his blue eyes. Severus glared at him."There is nothing I want to talk about," he snarled but whatever he said, it only seemed to strengthen Albus's suspicions."Perhaps … yes, perhaps something hasn't happened, maybe something is happening," he said shrewdly and laid his hand on Severus's shoulder again. "Whatever it is, Severus, don't ignore it, don't fight it, engage in it." Severus huffed and Albus scrutinised him for a moment. Then he nodded to himself and smiled more broadly, leaving Severus standing alone in the deserted Entrance Hall.Severus didn't move for a while, leaning against the stone wall, staring into nothingness. He sighed. Ignoring the werewolf appeared to strengthen the new feelings, it certainly created the wish to be invited to tea again, for which he felt pathetic and foolish. But perhaps, he thought, only perhaps, Albus was right. Maybe confrontation was the only thing that could put an end to his troubles. But how should he confront the werewolf? One look from those golden eyes and he'd be defenceless again. He wandered through the corridors, thinking about whether or not it would be wise to talk to Lupin again, and if yes, about what? Maybe he should just reestablish his hostility, but that hadn't worked before, either, so what was he to do?And then, after a couple of hours of walking aimlessly through the castle, Severus found himself in the corridor that contained Lupin's classroom, from which, despite the late hour, light was falling on the stone floor Severus was standing on, motionless. He had not meant to end up here, and even if he had, he would not have expected Lupin to be here, in the dead of the night, after having had a few drinks with McGonagall. But there was definitely movement within: rustling sounds told Severus that the werewolf must be looking through papers or homework, and a splashing told of water in a tank and a creature within. Severus didn't know if this was the right time for a confrontation. He should perhaps prepare for it first. Then he felt like a coward and cursed Lupin for making him feel it. Edging slowly closer to the door, he heard Lupin's voice, low and husky, talking to somebody."It's all right, I know you don't like it in there," he was saying and Severus figured he was talking to something, "I'll give you something to eat before I turn in."Severus peered into the classroom, trying not to attract Lupin's attention. In a large tank, on a mossy stone in the middle, surrounded by water, sat a Kappa, stretching its limbs and making annoyed sounds as it shot Lupin poisonous looks. The werewolf was lounging in a chair behind the desk, his feet on the desktop, reading a roll of parchment in his hand by the flickering candlelight, his brows knitted and his lips pursed, a quill poised in his fingers, touched now and then to the parchment to make a scratching note. Despite himself, Severus wondered where the Red Cap had got to, if it had already been brought to Culloden. On the blackboard there was a chalk picture of the creature sitting beside it, labeled and headlined "The Kappa", and Lupin had stacked a few books on his desk whose titles Severus could not make out from this distance. Lupin seemed to be preparing his next lesson.Severus drummed his fingers against his leg, trying to decide whether to enter or leave, when Lupin cleared his throat. "Good evening, Severus," he said, without looking up, and Severus froze. "Won't you come in?" A small smile conquered his lips and Severus cursed him again.But since there was no backing out now without looking like a fool, Severus slowly entered the room, closed the door behind himself, and watched Lupin lift his feet off the desk and set quill and parchment aside, still not looking at Severus as he got up and opened the top of the Kappa's tank to pour a red liquid from a flask into a bowl in the corner, from which the Kappa drank greedily. Blood most probably. Closing the tank again, Lupin turned round and sighed, rubbing his eyes."You are here at this hour?" asked Severus despite himself, and looked for signs of alcohol-induced symptoms in Lupin. "I would have thought after your meeting with McGonagall you would feel too tired to prepare classes.""We weren't long," said Lupin distractedly, "and I don't drink more than one goblet of wine, usually. I felt wide awake and wanted to put that energy to some use …" he trailed off, looking quite sober, indeed, and sighed again. "Why have you been avoiding me?" he asked then, looking at the ceiling, straight to the point. Severus suddenly felt as though it was Lupin who had come to confront him and not the other way around. It was unpleasant even though Lupin's voice was quite calm. It was like Albus's calm scolding. And Severus could not possibly tell Lupin the truth now, could he?"The full moon was over, it was unnecessary to associate with you any further," he said coldly and Lupin looked at him. Their eyes met and a second later Severus knew that he'd been seen through again. But Lupin didn't say anything, surprisingly, he just sat down on the edge of his desk and looked calmly at him. "I told you that I had no desire to waste time in your company.""And yet you are here," said Lupin, raising his eyebrows, as he put his hands into his pockets. Severus glared at him but to no effect. "Did you notice my Kappa?" Lupin asked then, quite unexpectedly, and indicated the creature. "Quite a nice specimen. Was delivered the other day. I'm sure the children will like him.""Yes, yes. Very nice," said Severus, slightly taken aback by the change of subject. He did not know what else to say, though, so he waited for Lupin to say something. This confrontation wasn't as he had imagined it would be. Perhaps he should have prepared, after all. He did not know what he wanted to achieve. Lupin was the one who seemed to have a plan, who had been waiting for Severus to come. He was wearing a shrewd look, anyway."I've been meaning to ask you … It is a Muggle saying, you know?" Lupin said and Severus was taken by surprise again. "'Good medicine tastes bitter'. A pureblood wizard wouldn't say anything like that." Severus stared at him in confusion. Where had that come from? And what did he want to imply? "So, Severus … who was it? Your mother or your father? The Muggle, I mean."Severus stiffened. Nobody knew about his being a half-blood. Nobody but Dumbledore and McGonagall. He had always kept that fact to himself. Not only was he held in higher esteem by purebloods like Lucius Malfoy and the other Death Eaters if they didn't know that he was half-blood, he also had a very private reason to conceal that fact. "That's none of your business," he snarled and Lupin raised an eyebrow."It's nothing to be ashamed of," said the werewolf quietly. "I'm half-blood, too.""I am not ashamed," snapped Severus, crossing his arms over his chest, angry with Lupin for bringing that up now."Why don't you tell me, then?"Severus glared at him. He didn't have the right to ask questions like this, it was private. Severus wouldn't tell him about his parents, it was too painful. He wanted to shut out all emotion, if possible, and he wouldn't tell Lupin anything that would give him the impression that he was his confidant now. He wanted to show him the exact opposite, after all."Why would I share my private matters with you?" he asked coolly. "I am not aware of any reason.""So, that's it?" Lupin asked, knitting his brows again. "We got along well … there was a connection ... I thought something had changed between us."At that Severus stiffened again. So he felt it, too. The change in their … it couldn't really be called a relationship, could it? He chose to avoid that topic for now. The change between them. "Did you actually expect us to become friends?" he asked incredulously. "I have no interest in a pet werewolf, Lupin, thank you very much." He was rather proud of himself for having managed to get his message across. Then he noticed how pathetic that feeling was.Lupin's face darkened like Severus had never seen it before. "Don't try to hurt me, Severus, it won't work," he said in a strangely calm voice that sent an unpleasant chill through Severus's body. "If you want to try nonetheless I'm sure you can do better than this. What you do to Neville proves it. And while we're at it, I think you should ask yourself if that is the right way to treat your students.""Do you, now?" asked Severus, taking a step closer. "And you think you of all people have the right to tell me what to do?""I believe I have the right to tell you that it is not a great achievement to be the thing one of your students fears most," said Lupin, still quite calmly. "Teachers mustn't be bullies.""If the boy cannot do anything right, he doesn't deserve better –" retorted Severus but Lupin was rising to his feet almost agitatedly now and it startled Severus to see him like that."He is a child," said Lupin, his voice still quiet, "he needs encouragement and praise to learn. You are only making things worse. You don't help him at all.""I have no wish to help him," said Severus incredulously, balling his fists and feeling angry that they were having this discussion when all he had wanted was to make clear to the werewolf that he did not want him near him. He was angry that he was being told off. "Those who do not possess the gift are not worthy of my attention."There was a tiny flash of anger in Lupin's eyes now and Severus was thrilled to see it, feeling the desire to make Lupin reveal everything that lay behind those placid eyes and the stubbornly calm mask. What else was there to see? But he should not want to find out. He was already fascinated enough with the werewolf, there was already too much that was attractive about him, too much that captivated Severus. It was no good to uncover more. But he wanted to see Lupin's resoluteness again. He wanted to see him stand his ground."Then why don't you leave them alone?" asked the werewolf, his voice giving away some of his anger now. Intriguing. "You know what you are doing to them. They are defenceless children, none of them deserves to be bullied by you. None of them did anything to you that would justify such treatment.""Who is this about now, Lupin?" asked Severus smoothly, as his anger was replaced by curiosity. "Potter, or his friends? Or have you declared yourself the champion of bullied children across the world?"There was a few moments' silence during which the tension grew to an unbearable level and it felt to Severus like several years before the werewolf finally spoke again, "Funny how those who have been victims of bullying become bullies themselves when they grow up. Isn't that one of the least understandable vicious circles? Is it the power that you didn't have as a boy that you now relish? Or is it revenge on all Gryffindors?"The blood in Severus's veins froze and cold fury welled up inside him. "Well, you're the one who could've prevented it, aren't you?" he growled. Lupin's eyes widened in shock and Severus felt an odd pleasure fight its way through the anger, but it wasn't strong enough to survive for long. "If you hadn't just looked away when your bloody friends bullied me, if you had stopped them, maybe those poor children would not need to suffer today! So, ultimately, it is your fault, is it not?" Not that he believed that. Not entirely. McGonagall often said that he just wasn't a nice person, other than Lupin for instance. But perhaps he would have turned out a bit nicer if …Lupin averted his eyes. Obviously he wasn't eager on this kind of confrontation. "I know it was wrong, I know I should've done something," he said softly and paled in the flickering candlelight. The Kappa made a growling noise behind him. "But I …""But what?" Severus snarled. "Did you lose your backbone when you came hurrying to my help?""I was scared," said Lupin and sounded almost defeated, yet defiant, which startled Severus again. "I was afraid they would not want to be my friends anymore if I stopped them. For God's sake, Severus, they were the only people who never cared that I was … what I was. They let me be their friend, treated me as though I was normal. I thought I'd never find friends like them again, and truth be told, I never did …"He balled his hands into fists and Severus saw him trembling with agitation. He knew what the werewolf had feared back then. Loneliness. The loneliness that he had experienced after the Potters' and Pettigrew's deaths and Black's conviction. The loneliness that Severus knew as well. The explanation was that of a werewolf who had so wanted to be a normal boy, not risking for anything the make-believe normality he was given by his friends. But it wasn't enough for Severus. He had suffered while Lupin had been happy. Lupin had had no right to exchange Severus's peace for his own."I was selfish," the werewolf continued heavily, "and I felt guilty every time they bullied you. I take full responsibility for what happened to you, because I know I could have at least lessened your suffering. I didn't want any of that to happen to you and I am sorry, I regret it. But I'm a different person now. Please, Severus, why can't you forgive me even now when I am asking you to.""You didn't want it, did you?" Severus growled, unwaveringly unforgiving. "You didn't want any of that to happen to me? What about that night in fifth year? What about your little plan to kill me?"Lupin shook his head. "I wasn't in on that," he whispered, lips hardly moving, his eyes filled with terror. All those emotions in just one night."Don't lie to me!" spat Severus and Lupin flinched. It was almost thrilling that Lupin revealed such an abundance of new faces tonight."I'm not lying," said Lupin and his voice was now shaking quite openly, "I didn't know anything about it, nor did James. It was Sirius's idea!""You wanted to kill me that night, for having tried to find out your secret!" retorted Severus and Lupin shook his head. Severus took a step forward. "You lured me to that Shack so I would pay the price for my curiosity.""I didn't, Severus, I swear, I would never have allowed it!" said Lupin urgently and his voice grew more distressed. "Please listen to me, I was just as shocked as you when I was told –""You are no better than Black!" snapped Severus and Lupin fell silent, looking as though Severus had slapped him. "Why not throw Snivellus to the werewolf? It isn't as though anybody would care! That was your thinking wasn't it? And now you are trying to wind out of your responsibility like Potter did when he 'saved' me heroically! And I was the one Dumbledore treated like a petty criminal, not you, not Potter.""I wasn't in on it!" Lupin said loudly and the Kappa behind him screeched. "Why aren't you listening to me? He wanted to use me to get rid of you, it was his idea! James and I had nothing to do with it, I would never have allowed it, nor would James, whatever you may think of him. Biting someone always was my greatest fear and my friends knew, I would never have thought that Sirius would do something like that. I never wanted you to get hurt – to die by my hand!"Lupin's troubled eyes were entreating him, were searching his face. The amber was gold now. The werewolf was desperate to clear his name, to make sure Severus got it right, to make him understand what his friend's evil prank would have meant to him, had it succeeded. And now there was no mask hiding all this from Severus.And suddenly Severus realised that he believed him."I never hated you," Lupin whispered and it unfroze Severus's blood, evoking that strange, nameless feeling again. And this time he didn't want to let it go. He felt his arm move of its own accord, to reach out and touch the werewolf, but stopped it before the werewolf had noticed. "You can't imagine how I felt when I learned of Sirius's terrible prank. I wouldn't have been able to live with it if anything had happened to you.""Great friend, Black, wasn't he?" Severus asked flatly and Lupin's eyes darkened, his brow creased, and he looked profoundly disappointed."It seems so," he muttered. Then he sighed heavily. "Why are you doing this to me, Severus?" Severus couldn't answer, he just stood there, motionless. He wouldn't tell him the truth but he couldn't think of a good enough lie, so he kept silent. Lupin waited impatiently and when the silence stretched he said something that startled Severus, "What are you scared of?""I'm not scared," Severus said quietly and was sure that Lupin knew something. He read him like an open book and it was surprisingly relieving that Severus didn't need to say anything, that Lupin just knew. At that very moment, though, Severus didn't want Lupin to know what he felt."I know you don't think much of being close to anyone," Lupin said, surprising Severus once again. "I just thought … I thought there was something between us ... Something we share, that only we understand."Severus knew it was true, but he didn't want to hear it. There were quite a few things they shared, not least of all loneliness, pain, and secrets. And Severus couldn't forget the moment they had shared after the Blue Moon. He could still feel it, the pleasant silence, could still see the peaceful smile on the werewolf's face. And suddenly he felt peaceful, too, wishing back that moment. But impossible. Absolutely impossible. He had made up his mind about this. He did not want, was unable to risk letting this connection grow."I have no interest in sharing anything with anyone," he muttered in an attempt to make Lupin give up and forget what they shared."But that is a lie," said Lupin and it surprised Severus that there was a trace of suppressed anger in his hoarse voice. "I know it isn't true. Maybe I went too far the other day. Is that why you are feeling uneasy?"Severus glared at him. "I'm not uneasy!" he snapped and Lupin raised an eyebrow."You are scared," said the werewolf, and Severus gave him a scandalised look for voicing Severus's own thoughts so candidly, when Severus wanted to keep them a secret. "It is there in your eyes, I can see it quite clearly."Severus averted his eyes in furious frustration. He was scared. And now he had admitted to it. He didn't want to risk exposing his soul to someone who might rip it apart, to someone who could hurt him, use his knowledge of Severus to destroy him. And yet, he knew that, actually, he did want it. He wished he could let bygones be bygones, forget all his fears and open himself to the werewolf, but he couldn't. Even though there was no hatred left now. And it was no mystery why it had disappeared. But there was a veil of fear hanging over the things Severus craved, disfiguring them."Perhaps I've made a mistake," said Lupin when Severus made no answer, but then he sighed again and shook his head. "I only thought – you certainly sent all the signs – that you liked spending time with me." And Severus thought that there was something else he wanted to say, it was in his eyes, another emotion. But who'd look at Severus like that. The way he looked at Lupin."I don't want you close to me!" Severus snarled. He wouldn't be able to bear it if Lupin found out about his feelings and rejected them. Who would want Snivellus to feel for one like that? Who would believe that he felt anything at all, anyway?"Then tell me to stay away from you, and I swear I will," the werewolf said, his voice calm but tense. Severus hesitated. It was so easy. Just one sentence, four words, but his mouth wouldn't form them. And again Lupin saw right through him, Severus's eyes were like windows to him. "But you don't want me to go away, either, right?" he said, stepping closer to Severus, his voice mild again. "You would've left already if you did. You know that, though we are very different, we are also very alike – we understand each other. And you don't want to lose that, either."Severus looked at the floor. Those were his thoughts exactly. They both knew pain, of every possible kind. But that didn't make it any easier to trust Lupin. He trusted him not to laugh, but he didn't trust him not to hurt him, on purpose or not. Nobody could be trusted in that respect. Why would anybody want to hand out weapons that enabled others to hurt them? Was the pleasure resulting from relationships truly worth the pain? Thinking back, Severus did not remember, felt only the pain now, only pale memories of the pleasure. The pain, though, was still vivid."I am scared, too, believe me. But when I'm with you, it is as if I had finally found someone who understands me, who feels what I feel. And I think it's the same for you," Lupin continued and Severus raised his eyes again, meeting the werewolf's golden ones and letting them look through him deliberately for the first time. Though Lupin was standing a few feet away, Severus could feel the warmth radiating from him. "You needn't even say anything. And if you do, you tell me so much with only a few words. Without needing to find the right words.""I'm an open book to you, am I not?" Severus muttered, a little hurt in his pride, but somehow he felt relieved again. He felt that it meant something. The werewolf chuckled huskily and Severus felt as if gravitation had ceased to exist, his stomach fuzzy and his head so very light. Merlin, he had missed his chuckle! How annoying. The Kappa hit the water's surface with its fists."Maybe that would be saying a bit much …" Lupin trailed off. "To be listened to, to talk to someone who understands, is healing. When I'm with you, I don't feel ashamed. I am sure that it means something. It is something very rare."Severus fixed his eyes on Lupin's lips and listened to those words that described his own feelings better than he could ever have done himself. Severus could never have put those things, of which he had subconsciously been aware, into as true a shape as Lupin just had. There was the connection between them, quite visible, quite audible, almost to be grasped with bare hands. It was indeed quite rare, and Severus did not want it to go away. It was –"Something precious," the werewolf said softly, voicing Severus's thoughts. It had happened before. On the steps before the castle. They had both enjoyed the scent of the rain. Severus knew they were so very alike, and yet they were like day and night. "We are what Life has made of us. And now Life has decided that we should meet again. Why not make the best of it, Severus, why not use this opportunity?"Severus didn't know what to say. They shared something that he couldn't share with anyone else: they were both broken, so broken, indeed, that they needed to protect what was left of them with impenetrable masks. It was indeed a healing experience to find in Lupin a related soul. And when the werewolf held out his hand to him with the first really genuine smile on his face, a smile that touched his eyes, shining with that nameless emotion, and the same words on his lips, "Stay a while," a request not an order, he felt chaos break loose inside of himself.He was more frightened than ever before, frightened of his feelings and their consequences. How could it be that, in not much more than a month, the loathing he had felt when Lupin had first set foot in the staffroom had disappeared treacherously to be replaced by something that Severus did not dare acknowledge, was too afraid to explore? Something he had thought lost for good.He wasn't ready to say it, but he enjoyed the way the werewolf contradicted him and stood up to him, how he encouraged him and understood him and smiled at him, mysterious and unwavering, enjoying his company, seeking and prolonging it, instead of despising it like everybody else. Severus enjoyed his every expression, his every mood and he wanted to see them all, feel them all directed at him. He enjoyed to be liked by Lupin, more than he cared to acknowledge. And he enjoyed the effect he finally had on the werewolf.He wanted to let Lupin find out every secret he was hiding from the world, wanted him to find the words for his thoughts and feelings, wanted him to continue to treat him with warmth and respect, and he wanted to be healed by him and heal him in turn. He wanted to break down his walls and let Lupin in to his soul.But he could not give in to that desire. Instead he turned on his heel and ran from the room like a coward, ran away from his feelings and the need to act on them. He ran away like the Slytherin he was, but inside of him, he knew but wasn't brave enough to let Lupin know, the prominent emotion was Gryffindor golden. Like Lupin's eyes.

	Title: Fortune's Might
	Title: Fortune's Might
	Title:
	 Fortune's Might
	Pairing: SS/RL
	Pairing:
	Disclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.
	Disclaimer
	Author's Note: I've not much time today, but I wanted to say thank you to all my new readers and followers. I hope you enjoy the new chapter.
	Author's Note
	
	Lesson Eight: Old Wounds 
	Lesson Eight: Old Wounds 
	Severus didn't see Lupin again until lunch on the following day. He looked worn still, but much better than after the full moon. Severus wanted to avoid eye contact but at the same time he just couldn't help glancing down the table now and then, and when Lupin noticed his eyes on him he looked up and smiled, inclining his head in a gesture of greeting. Severus stared at him for a few moments, unable to take his eyes off the werewolf, before he managed to pull them away, scowling at his chicken.
	He felt strange. Ever since he had left Lupin's office yesterday, confusion and uncertainty had been following him everywhere. And he couldn't say that he was very good at coping with this sort of inner indecision and vulnerable chaos that was all Lupin's fault. On the one hand, he held a grudge against the werewolf for never helping him at school, for being friends with Black and Potter, and for almost having eaten him on purpose in their fifth year. On the other hand … Severus had no words for everything on the other hand. It was so confusing, so intense and so profound, that it almost scared him. Though he'd never admit to it. Lupin seemed to be able to sneak past his defences and make it feel … something like pleasant … or at least less painful, definitely relieving. There was something happening between them. Severus wasn't sure he wanted it to happen. But what was it? Severus didn't dare give it a name to classify it. It was too great for classification. There was a connection. But did Lupin feel about it like Severus did? Did he feel vulnerable? If so, he didn't let it show. He seemed quite normal. He seemed his nonchalant, self-confident self. But wasn't that at least partly a mask, too? Hadn't Lupin revealed yesterday what he truly felt? Hadn't he admitted that he felt like Severus about some things at least?
	was
	Severus glanced down the table again and started when he saw that Lupin had been anticipating it, his amber eyes twinkling golden in the sunlight that fell into the Great Hall from the enchanted ceiling, his smile still in place. It sent a shiver down Severus's spine and he turned quickly away. The shivers were different now. Deeper somehow. Right to the bone. Suddenly he felt warm and cursed the werewolf silently. He couldn't let him continue to sneak past his defensive walls. The thought disquieted him. As did the fact that a tiny little voice inside him did want to let Lupin in. He didn't have names for his feelings for the werewolf, he only knew that hatred wasn't among them anymore. Those feelings were painful and pleasant at the same time, and he didn't know whether he enjoyed or loathed them. Whether he wanted to risk letting them unfold or to recoil before the danger. He heard Lupin's soft, husky chuckle from the other side of the table and felt thrilled by the sensation it incited in him. A tingling that travelled through his whole body. He felt that his face was flushed and tried to fight it down but couldn't. His body betrayed him and it was all he could do not to leave the Hall to be alone with it.
	did
	He finished his lunch quickly and left as fast as possible without making the impression of running away. When he was clear of the Hall, he started running, straight to the cold dungeons, hoping that the chill would cool him down. In his rooms, he collapsed onto his sofa and let his head fall back with an exasperated sigh. Slowly but gradually, and with surreptitious cleverness, Lupin had crawled under Severus's skin to make himself at home. Lupin had been right, he was not the boy Severus had hated. And it was impossible to deny now that this was attraction, the shivering, the captivation, the appreciation of Lupin's looks and the way he moved and talked and looked past the surface unlike most dunderheads Severus knew, the admiration of the way Lupin stood his ground, and the fascination with his personality. He was ashamed of himself. He had let the werewolf get to him. The werewolf of all people. He stared at the ceiling, eyes half closed, and remembered the peaceful smile he had seen on Lupin's lips yesterday. He couldn't help it. Now that the feeling was there, all he could do was ignore it. Try to forget it.
	Severus was careful not to cultivate such feelings, it was too much of a risk. Betrayal, lies, disappointment, and of course regret. Those were the things that hid behind such emotions, they were the feelings one had to expect when indulging in foolish sentimentalities. When connecting with another human being and letting them come too close. And he had sworn to himself, long ago, that he'd never again be so stupid to let anyone get close enough to him to be in the position to make him experience those feelings. He was tired of those feelings. He could not bear them. Close interpersonal relationships meant trouble and suffering, so he had decided to have none. Albus didn't count.
	And since he was no naïve Gryffindor, searching for romance, sitting on a white steed in a shining armour, galloping through a – to cut a long story short: he was a Slytherin. And Slytherins did not indulge in sentimental feelings, least of all with Gryffindors. Letting it happen with this Gryffindor in particular was absolutely unthinkable. Severus rubbed his eyes. It was hard to keep to this reasoning and hide behind his house when he was in Lupin's presence. Which meant that there was only one way of dealing with it. There could be no more private exchanges. He would have to stop giving Lupin opportunities to catch him alone and start a conversation.
	Over the following days, Severus started avoiding and ignoring the werewolf again. Whenever he saw Lupin approaching him or heard his voice, he turned on his heel and took a detour to go out of his way. The only occasions when he couldn't do so were the meals in the Great Hall. He didn't look down the table anymore, didn't glance at Lupin, and tried not to strain his ears when he heard him talk, since he rarely heard him laugh anymore. Already after the first day of silence he sensed the werewolf's eyes on him during meals, and he felt an uncomfortable tingling where his eyes fixed him. And on the third day, he was quite sure of that, he had stopped hearing his chuckle. And, Merlin, he missed it! It was so annoying! Most of the time, all Severus did was glare at his food, as if it were at fault for everything.
	Merlin
	annoying
	Of course Albus noticed that something was up, at the very last when Severus glared after Lupin one night, watching him leave the castle with McGonagall, apparently for a drink in the Three Broomsticks. She had invited him because she thought the stress and pressure of being a teacher was making him quiet and much less cheerful than he had used to be. Severus, of course, knew that it was his silence that had this effect on Lupin, and though it was satisfying that he could achieve such an effect at all, an effect his rudeness and snide remarks had never had, Severus did not like the temptation it posed to just go after them and join them in Hogsmeade. He never did anything like that. He did not usually look for company. Lupin's company was different, but he had decided not to seek it. Surely Lupin would forget him while connecting with McGonagall over some mulled mead. And that thought annoyed Severus despite everything.
	Albus walked up behind Severus as Lupin closed the front doors behind him without noticing that Severus was watching. Albus's hand came to rest on Severus's shoulder and Severus turned, shrugging it off. He did not want to show Albus that he was feeling horridly ordinary now that he saw that Lupin was connecting with others, too, was probably listening to their tragic stories, too, because it was in his nature to take interest in them. Severus had believed that he was the only one Lupin felt closely connected to, he had said they were alike. Had he only said it to twist Severus round his finger? It hadn't felt like it. Severus's glare darkened.
	"Is everything all right, Severus?" asked Albus and Severus snapped out of his thoughts. "You seem rather less sociable even than usual, lately."
	"Get to the point, Headmaster," snarled Severus, glancing at the front doors. He should feel relieved that somebody was distracting Lupin from him, but he didn't. He felt indignant.
	"Well … did anything happen between you and Remus?" said Albus tentatively, a frown on his face.
	Severus stared at him. What in Salazar's name was he suggesting? "Of course not!" he snapped and crossed his arms over his chest, trying not to flush.
	Albus surveyed him over his half-moon spectacles. "So you didn't have another row?" he asked quietly. "I thought you did, because whenever you are near or your name is mentioned he seems a little subdued."
	Severus was still staring. Oh, that was what he'd been suggesting. Why on earth had he suspected something else? He shook his head more to himself than at Albus. "There was nothing."
	"Well, but something must have happened," said Albus shrewdly. "Since the full moon you've been distancing yourself from him, even though, as he told me, you were very kind to him."
	"I only did my job," said Severus coldly, feeling odd when being referred to as kind, "in-between full moons I want him to leave me alone."
	"I don't know if he is aware of that," replied Albus and he was smiling slightly. "He seems to be under the impression that you have overcome your differences."
	"Then he is wrong," retorted Severus, averting his eyes and glancing again at the front doors.
	"So something has happened … would you like to talk about it?" Albus asked with a twinkle in his blue eyes. Severus glared at him.
	has
	"There is nothing I want to talk about," he snarled but whatever he said, it only seemed to strengthen Albus's suspicions.
	"Perhaps … yes, perhaps something hasn't happened, maybe something is happening," he said shrewdly and laid his hand on Severus's shoulder again. "Whatever it is, Severus, don't ignore it, don't fight it, engage in it." Severus huffed and Albus scrutinised him for a moment. Then he nodded to himself and smiled more broadly, leaving Severus standing alone in the deserted Entrance Hall.
	hasn't
	is happening
	Severus didn't move for a while, leaning against the stone wall, staring into nothingness. He sighed. Ignoring the werewolf appeared to strengthen the new feelings, it certainly created the wish to be invited to tea again, for which he felt pathetic and foolish. But perhaps, he thought, only perhaps, Albus was right. Maybe confrontation was the only thing that could put an end to his troubles. But how should he confront the werewolf? One look from those golden eyes and he'd be defenceless again. He wandered through the corridors, thinking about whether or not it would be wise to talk to Lupin again, and if yes, about what? Maybe he should just reestablish his hostility, but that hadn't worked before, either, so what was he to do?
	And then, after a couple of hours of walking aimlessly through the castle, Severus found himself in the corridor that contained Lupin's classroom, from which, despite the late hour, light was falling on the stone floor Severus was standing on, motionless. He had not meant to end up here, and even if he had, he would not have expected Lupin to be here, in the dead of the night, after having had a few drinks with McGonagall. But there was definitely movement within: rustling sounds told Severus that the werewolf must be looking through papers or homework, and a splashing told of water in a tank and a creature within. Severus didn't know if this was the right time for a confrontation. He should perhaps prepare for it first. Then he felt like a coward and cursed Lupin for making him feel it. Edging slowly closer to the door, he heard Lupin's voice, low and husky, talking to somebody.
	"It's all right, I know you don't like it in there," he was saying and Severus figured he was talking to something, "I'll give you something to eat before I turn in."
	thing
	Severus peered into the classroom, trying not to attract Lupin's attention. In a large tank, on a mossy stone in the middle, surrounded by water, sat a Kappa, stretching its limbs and making annoyed sounds as it shot Lupin poisonous looks. The werewolf was lounging in a chair behind the desk, his feet on the desktop, reading a roll of parchment in his hand by the flickering candlelight, his brows knitted and his lips pursed, a quill poised in his fingers, touched now and then to the parchment to make a scratching note. Despite himself, Severus wondered where the Red Cap had got to, if it had already been brought to Culloden. On the blackboard there was a chalk picture of the creature sitting beside it, labeled and headlined "The Kappa", and Lupin had stacked a few books on his desk whose titles Severus could not make out from this distance. Lupin seemed to be preparing his next lesson.
	Severus drummed his fingers against his leg, trying to decide whether to enter or leave, when Lupin cleared his throat. "Good evening, Severus," he said, without looking up, and Severus froze. "Won't you come in?" A small smile conquered his lips and Severus cursed him again.
	But since there was no backing out now without looking like a fool, Severus slowly entered the room, closed the door behind himself, and watched Lupin lift his feet off the desk and set quill and parchment aside, still not looking at Severus as he got up and opened the top of the Kappa's tank to pour a red liquid from a flask into a bowl in the corner, from which the Kappa drank greedily. Blood most probably. Closing the tank again, Lupin turned round and sighed, rubbing his eyes.
	"You are here at this hour?" asked Severus despite himself, and looked for signs of alcohol-induced symptoms in Lupin. "I would have thought after your meeting with McGonagall you would feel too tired to prepare classes."
	"We weren't long," said Lupin distractedly, "and I don't drink more than one goblet of wine, usually. I felt wide awake and wanted to put that energy to some use …" he trailed off, looking quite sober, indeed, and sighed again. "Why have you been avoiding me?" he asked then, looking at the ceiling, straight to the point. Severus suddenly felt as though it was Lupin who had come to confront him and not the other way around. It was unpleasant even though Lupin's voice was quite calm. It was like Albus's calm scolding. And Severus could not possibly tell Lupin the truth now, could he?
	"The full moon was over, it was unnecessary to associate with you any further," he said coldly and Lupin looked at him. Their eyes met and a second later Severus knew that he'd been seen through again. But Lupin didn't say anything, surprisingly, he just sat down on the edge of his desk and looked calmly at him. "I told you that I had no desire to waste time in your company."
	"And yet you are here," said Lupin, raising his eyebrows, as he put his hands into his pockets. Severus glared at him but to no effect. "Did you notice my Kappa?" Lupin asked then, quite unexpectedly, and indicated the creature. "Quite a nice specimen. Was delivered the other day. I'm sure the children will like him."
	"Yes, yes. Very nice," said Severus, slightly taken aback by the change of subject. He did not know what else to say, though, so he waited for Lupin to say something. This confrontation wasn't as he had imagined it would be. Perhaps he should have prepared, after all. He did not know what he wanted to achieve. Lupin was the one who seemed to have a plan, who had been waiting for Severus to come. He was wearing a shrewd look, anyway.
	"I've been meaning to ask you … It is a Muggle saying, you know?" Lupin said and Severus was taken by surprise again. "'Good medicine tastes bitter'. A pureblood wizard wouldn't say anything like that." Severus stared at him in confusion. Where had that come from? And what did he want to imply? "So, Severus … who was it? Your mother or your father? The Muggle, I mean."
	Severus stiffened. Nobody knew about his being a half-blood. Nobody but Dumbledore and McGonagall. He had always kept that fact to himself. Not only was he held in higher esteem by purebloods like Lucius Malfoy and the other Death Eaters if they didn't know that he was half-blood, he also had a very private reason to conceal that fact. "That's none of your business," he snarled and Lupin raised an eyebrow.
	"It's nothing to be ashamed of," said the werewolf quietly. "I'm half-blood, too."
	"I am not ashamed," snapped Severus, crossing his arms over his chest, angry with Lupin for bringing that up now.
	"Why don't you tell me, then?"
	Severus glared at him. He didn't have the right to ask questions like this, it was private. Severus wouldn't tell him about his parents, it was too painful. He wanted to shut out all emotion, if possible, and he wouldn't tell Lupin anything that would give him the impression that he was his confidant now. He wanted to show him the exact opposite, after all.
	"Why would I share my private matters with you?" he asked coolly. "I am not aware of any reason."
	"So, that's it?" Lupin asked, knitting his brows again. "We got along well … there was a connection ... I thought something had changed between us."
	At that Severus stiffened again. So he felt it, too. The change in their … it couldn't really be called a relationship, could it? He chose to avoid that topic for now. The change between them. "Did you actually expect us to become friends?" he asked incredulously. "I have no interest in a pet werewolf, Lupin, thank you very much." He was rather proud of himself for having managed to get his message across. Then he noticed how pathetic that feeling was.
	Lupin's face darkened like Severus had never seen it before. "Don't try to hurt me, Severus, it won't work," he said in a strangely calm voice that sent an unpleasant chill through Severus's body. "If you want to try nonetheless I'm sure you can do better than this. What you do to Neville proves it. And while we're at it, I think you should ask yourself if that is the right way to treat your students."
	"Do you, now?" asked Severus, taking a step closer. "And you think you of all people have the right to tell me what to do?"
	"I believe I have the right to tell you that it is not a great achievement to be the thing one of your students fears most," said Lupin, still quite calmly. "Teachers mustn't be bullies."
	"If the boy cannot do anything right, he doesn't deserve better –" retorted Severus but Lupin was rising to his feet almost agitatedly now and it startled Severus to see him like that.
	"He is a child," said Lupin, his voice still quiet, "he needs encouragement and praise to learn. You are only making things worse. You don't help him at all."
	"I have no wish to help him," said Severus incredulously, balling his fists and feeling angry that they were having this discussion when all he had wanted was to make clear to the werewolf that he did not want him near him. He was angry that he was being told off. "Those who do not possess the gift are not worthy of my attention."
	There was a tiny flash of anger in Lupin's eyes now and Severus was thrilled to see it, feeling the desire to make Lupin reveal everything that lay behind those placid eyes and the stubbornly calm mask. What else was there to see? But he should not want to find out. He was already fascinated enough with the werewolf, there was already too much that was attractive about him, too much that captivated Severus. It was no good to uncover more. But he wanted to see Lupin's resoluteness again. He wanted to see him stand his ground.
	"Then why don't you leave them alone?" asked the werewolf, his voice giving away some of his anger now. Intriguing. "You know what you are doing to them. They are defenceless children, none of them deserves to be bullied by you. None of them did anything to you that would justify such treatment."
	"Who is this about now, Lupin?" asked Severus smoothly, as his anger was replaced by curiosity. "Potter, or his friends? Or have you declared yourself the champion of bullied children across the world?"
	There was a few moments' silence during which the tension grew to an unbearable level and it felt to Severus like several years before the werewolf finally spoke again, "Funny how those who have been victims of bullying become bullies themselves when they grow up. Isn't that one of the least understandable vicious circles? Is it the power that you didn't have as a boy that you now relish? Or is it revenge on all Gryffindors?"
	The blood in Severus's veins froze and cold fury welled up inside him. "Well, you're the one who could've prevented it, aren't you?" he growled. Lupin's eyes widened in shock and Severus felt an odd pleasure fight its way through the anger, but it wasn't strong enough to survive for long. "If you hadn't just looked away when your bloody friends bullied me, if you had stopped them, maybe those poor children would not need to suffer today! So, ultimately, it is your fault, is it not?" Not that he believed that. Not entirely. McGonagall often said that he just wasn't a nice person, other than Lupin for instance. But perhaps he would have turned out a bit nicer if …
	Lupin averted his eyes. Obviously he wasn't eager on this kind of confrontation. "I know it was wrong, I know I should've done something," he said softly and paled in the flickering candlelight. The Kappa made a growling noise behind him. "But I …"
	"But what?" Severus snarled. "Did you lose your backbone when you came hurrying to my help?"
	"I was scared," said Lupin and sounded almost defeated, yet defiant, which startled Severus again. "I was afraid they would not want to be my friends anymore if I stopped them. For God's sake, Severus, they were the only people who never cared that I was … what I was. They let me be their friend, treated me as though I was normal. I thought I'd never find friends like them again, and truth be told, I never did …"
	He balled his hands into fists and Severus saw him trembling with agitation. He knew what the werewolf had feared back then. Loneliness. The loneliness that he had experienced after the Potters' and Pettigrew's deaths and Black's conviction. The loneliness that Severus knew as well. The explanation was that of a werewolf who had so wanted to be a normal boy, not risking for anything the make-believe normality he was given by his friends. But it wasn't enough for Severus. He had suffered while Lupin had been happy. Lupin had had no right to exchange Severus's peace for his own.
	"I was selfish," the werewolf continued heavily, "and I felt guilty every time they bullied you. I take full responsibility for what happened to you, because I know I could have at least lessened your suffering. I didn't want any of that to happen to you and I am sorry, I regret it. But I'm a different person now. Please, Severus, why can't you forgive me even now when I am asking you to."
	"You didn't want it, did you?" Severus growled, unwaveringly unforgiving. "You didn't want any of that to happen to me? What about that night in fifth year? What about your little plan to kill me?"
	Lupin shook his head. "I wasn't in on that," he whispered, lips hardly moving, his eyes filled with terror. All those emotions in just one night.
	"Don't lie to me!" spat Severus and Lupin flinched. It was almost thrilling that Lupin revealed such an abundance of new faces tonight.
	"I'm not lying," said Lupin and his voice was now shaking quite openly, "I didn't know anything about it, nor did James. It was Sirius's idea!"
	"You wanted to kill me that night, for having tried to find out your secret!" retorted Severus and Lupin shook his head. Severus took a step forward. "You lured me to that Shack so I would pay the price for my curiosity."
	"I didn't, Severus, I swear, I would never have allowed it!" said Lupin urgently and his voice grew more distressed. "Please listen to me, I was just as shocked as you when I was told –"
	"You are no better than Black!" snapped Severus and Lupin fell silent, looking as though Severus had slapped him. "Why not throw Snivellus to the werewolf? It isn't as though anybody would care! That was your thinking wasn't it? And now you are trying to wind out of your responsibility like Potter did when he 'saved' me heroically! And I was the one Dumbledore treated like a petty criminal, not you, not Potter."
	Snivellus
	"I wasn't in on it!" Lupin said loudly and the Kappa behind him screeched. "Why aren't you listening to me? He wanted to use me to get rid of you, it was his idea! James and I had nothing to do with it, I would never have allowed it, nor would James, whatever you may think of him. Biting someone always was my greatest fear and my friends knew, I would never have thought that Sirius would do something like that. I never wanted you to get hurt – to die by my hand!"
	his
	Lupin's troubled eyes were entreating him, were searching his face. The amber was gold now. The werewolf was desperate to clear his name, to make sure Severus got it right, to make him understand what his friend's evil prank would have meant to him, had it succeeded. And now there was no mask hiding all this from Severus.
	And suddenly Severus realised that he believed him.
	"I never hated you," Lupin whispered and it unfroze Severus's blood, evoking that strange, nameless feeling again. And this time he didn't want to let it go. He felt his arm move of its own accord, to reach out and touch the werewolf, but stopped it before the werewolf had noticed. "You can't imagine how I felt when I learned of Sirius's terrible prank. I wouldn't have been able to live with it if anything had happened to you."
	"Great friend, Black, wasn't he?" Severus asked flatly and Lupin's eyes darkened, his brow creased, and he looked profoundly disappointed.
	"It seems so," he muttered. Then he sighed heavily. "Why are you doing this to me, Severus?" Severus couldn't answer, he just stood there, motionless. He wouldn't tell him the truth but he couldn't think of a good enough lie, so he kept silent. Lupin waited impatiently and when the silence stretched he said something that startled Severus, "What are you scared of?"
	"I'm not scared," Severus said quietly and was sure that Lupin knew something. He read him like an open book and it was surprisingly relieving that Severus didn't need to say anything, that Lupin just knew. At that very moment, though, Severus didn't want Lupin to know what he felt.
	knew
	knew
	"I know you don't think much of being close to anyone," Lupin said, surprising Severus once again. "I just thought … I thought there was something between us ... Something we share, that only we understand."
	Severus knew it was true, but he didn't want to hear it. There were quite a few things they shared, not least of all loneliness, pain, and secrets. And Severus couldn't forget the moment they had shared after the Blue Moon. He could still feel it, the pleasant silence, could still see the peaceful smile on the werewolf's face. And suddenly he felt peaceful, too, wishing back that moment. But impossible. Absolutely impossible. He had made up his mind about this. He did not want, was unable to risk letting this connection grow.
	"I have no interest in sharing anything with anyone," he muttered in an attempt to make Lupin give up and forget what they shared.
	"But that is a lie," said Lupin and it surprised Severus that there was a trace of suppressed anger in his hoarse voice. "I know it isn't true. Maybe I went too far the other day. Is that why you are feeling uneasy?"
	Severus glared at him. "I'm not uneasy!" he snapped and Lupin raised an eyebrow.
	"You are scared," said the werewolf, and Severus gave him a scandalised look for voicing Severus's own thoughts so candidly, when Severus wanted to keep them a secret. "It is there in your eyes, I can see it quite clearly."
	are
	Severus averted his eyes in furious frustration. He was scared. And now he had admitted to it. He didn't want to risk exposing his soul to someone who might rip it apart, to someone who could hurt him, use his knowledge of Severus to destroy him. And yet, he knew that, actually, he did want it. He wished he could let bygones be bygones, forget all his fears and open himself to the werewolf, but he couldn't. Even though there was no hatred left now. And it was no mystery why it had disappeared. But there was a veil of fear hanging over the things Severus craved, disfiguring them.
	was
	"Perhaps I've made a mistake," said Lupin when Severus made no answer, but then he sighed again and shook his head. "I only thought – you certainly sent all the signs – that you liked spending time with me." And Severus thought that there was something else he wanted to say, it was in his eyes, another emotion. But who'd look at Severus like that. The way he looked at Lupin.
	"I don't want you close to me!" Severus snarled. He wouldn't be able to bear it if Lupin found out about his feelings and rejected them. Who would want Snivellus to feel for one like that? Who would believe that he felt anything at all, anyway?
	Snivellus 
	"Then tell me to stay away from you, and I swear I will," the werewolf said, his voice calm but tense. Severus hesitated. It was so easy. Just one sentence, four words, but his mouth wouldn't form them. And again Lupin saw right through him, Severus's eyes were like windows to him. "But you don't want me to go away, either, right?" he said, stepping closer to Severus, his voice mild again. "You would've left already if you did. You know that, though we are very different, we are also very alike – we understand each other. And you don't want to lose that, either."
	Severus looked at the floor. Those were his thoughts exactly. They both knew pain, of every possible kind. But that didn't make it any easier to trust Lupin. He trusted him not to laugh, but he didn't trust him not to hurt him, on purpose or not. Nobody could be trusted in that respect. Why would anybody want to hand out weapons that enabled others to hurt them? Was the pleasure resulting from relationships truly worth the pain? Thinking back, Severus did not remember, felt only the pain now, only pale memories of the pleasure. The pain, though, was still vivid.
	"I am scared, too, believe me. But when I'm with you, it is as if I had finally found someone who understands me, who feels what I feel. And I think it's the same for you," Lupin continued and Severus raised his eyes again, meeting the werewolf's golden ones and letting them look through him deliberately for the first time. Though Lupin was standing a few feet away, Severus could feel the warmth radiating from him. "You needn't even say anything. And if you do, you tell me so much with only a few words. Without needing to find the right words."
	"I'm an open book to you, am I not?" Severus muttered, a little hurt in his pride, but somehow he felt relieved again. He felt that it meant something. The werewolf chuckled huskily and Severus felt as if gravitation had ceased to exist, his stomach fuzzy and his head so very light. Merlin, he had missed his chuckle! How annoying. The Kappa hit the water's surface with its fists.
	"Maybe that would be saying a bit much …" Lupin trailed off. "To be listened to, to talk to someone who understands, is healing. When I'm with you, I don't feel ashamed. I am sure that it means something. It is something very rare."
	Severus fixed his eyes on Lupin's lips and listened to those words that described his own feelings better than he could ever have done himself. Severus could never have put those things, of which he had subconsciously been aware, into as true a shape as Lupin just had. There was the connection between them, quite visible, quite audible, almost to be grasped with bare hands. It was indeed quite rare, and Severus did not want it to go away. It was –
	"Something precious," the werewolf said softly, voicing Severus's thoughts. It had happened before. On the steps before the castle. They had both enjoyed the scent of the rain. Severus knew they were so very alike, and yet they were like day and night. "We are what Life has made of us. And now Life has decided that we should meet again. Why not make the best of it, Severus, why not use this opportunity?"
	Severus didn't know what to say. They shared something that he couldn't share with anyone else: they were both broken, so broken, indeed, that they needed to protect what was left of them with impenetrable masks. It was indeed a healing experience to find in Lupin a related soul. And when the werewolf held out his hand to him with the first really genuine smile on his face, a smile that touched his eyes, shining with that nameless emotion, and the same words on his lips, "Stay a while," a request not an order, he felt chaos break loose inside of himself.
	He was more frightened than ever before, frightened of his feelings and their consequences. How could it be that, in not much more than a month, the loathing he had felt when Lupin had first set foot in the staffroom had disappeared treacherously to be replaced by something that Severus did not dare acknowledge, was too afraid to explore? Something he had thought lost for good.
	He wasn't ready to say it, but he enjoyed the way the werewolf contradicted him and stood up to him, how he encouraged him and understood him and smiled at him, mysterious and unwavering, enjoying his company, seeking and prolonging it, instead of despising it like everybody else. Severus enjoyed his every expression, his every mood and he wanted to see them all, feel them all directed at him. He enjoyed to be liked by Lupin, more than he cared to acknowledge. And he enjoyed the effect he finally had on the werewolf.
	He wanted to let Lupin find out every secret he was hiding from the world, wanted him to find the words for his thoughts and feelings, wanted him to continue to treat him with warmth and respect, and he wanted to be healed by him and heal him in turn. He wanted to break down his walls and let Lupin in to his soul.
	But he could not give in to that desire. Instead he turned on his heel and ran from the room like a coward, ran away from his feelings and the need to act on them. He ran away like the Slytherin he was, but inside of him, he knew but wasn't brave enough to let Lupin know, the prominent emotion was Gryffindor golden. Like Lupin's eyes.
	
Title: Fortune's MightPairing: SS/RLDisclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.Author's Note: Sorry for the long wait, I've been on a hiking vacation. It's great how many new followers I've gained :). I hope it gave you time to catch up ... I realise there are many long chapters in this story. I'm all the happier that you take the time to read it. And I'm glad to know that you thought it worth the wait, WTFHP ;).Lesson Nine: Hostages To FortuneSeverus felt his mood dropping to a new low as he glowered down into a cauldron, looming over its owner during another Potions class. After having run from Lupin's classroom yesterday, he hadn't dared eat in the Great Hall or leave the dungeons for any errand at all. He flooed to the places he needed to go to. He didn't want to risk meeting Lupin. He wasn't entirely sure why he didn't want to meet him. Was it embarrassment, because he had run away? Or was it fear, because it had been hard not to stay last time and it would be even harder next time? Severus supposed it was a bit of both."Er … Professor?" said a hesitant voice from behind the cauldron and Severus directed his glare at its source, a frightened Hufflepuff second-year. "C-can I start brewing now?"Severus looked back at the cauldron and then glanced round the classroom. He had completely forgotten where he was, surrounded by Hufflepuffs and Ravenclaws who were brewing a Sleeping Draught. He turned and made his way to his desk before the blackboard. When he sat down, he noticed that he hadn't given the boy a snarky retort at all. He was so preoccupied with Lupin that he was growing careless. He heaved a sigh and fixed his eyes on his hands, folded in his lap. It was maddening. He could face the Dark Lord as a spy and lie to him, but he couldn't face Lupin and tell him to leave him alone. Because he knew the werewolf was right: actually, he didn't want Lupin to leave him alone. He was scared of himself, scared he might lose control one day and just burst out with the truth. He did not know what on earth had got into him. Why did the one person who could affect him like this turn up at Hogwarts? Severus suspected Albus to be behind this, suspected some deeper plan behind Lupin's appointment. He shook his head at himself. How ridiculous. Albus knew him too well. He probably thought it enjoyable to see Severus struggling with Lupin. He would not even think of the possibility that Severus might want more from the werewolf. That he wished he could touch him properly. Be touched by him.Severus shivered. He wondered how it would feel. How Lupin would feel. Warm. Yes, definitely warm. Severus could barely remember how it felt to have arms embracing him, to have someone so close to him that he could really feel them. He hadn't longed for it in the past. But he did long for Lupin. Long for his touch. A brush of his fingers, a hand on his arm. Anything would be fine. If he would only touch him. And maybe, if they were so close, he would finally be able to recognise that mysterious, sweet scent Lupin had about him. It was almost a plan now, almost a likely thing to happen.Noticing that his eyes were unfocused, Severus snapped out of his pathetic daydream. He should not even think about thinking about such possibilities. He should not even acknowledge them as possibilities. Looking forward to it, wondering how it would be, and feeling that it might indeed happen was neither helpful nor appropriate in his current situation. Or any situation, really. Severus had stopped trying to deny his feelings for the werewolf, but that did not mean that he could indulge in thoughts and dreams that revolved around acting on them. But as it seemed, he had not the slightest command over his defiant subconscious. Usually he could control his thoughts and feelings, at least in situations that he was used. It was disturbing that he did now, he could slap himself for it. And Lupin, too. After all, it was all his fault! A good hex between the eyes would serve him right.Why couldn't Severus hate the werewolf in peace? Why did Lupin have to be such a tempting mystery? And why, for Merlin's sake, did he have to offer Severus … something? Couldn't he just hate Severus like every silly Gryffindor would? Everything would be so much easier. But at the same time, Severus felt longingly curious about Lupin's something … perhaps it was, well, the something. He couldn't even think what he wanted it to be. His mind forbade it. The rational part at least. The irrational part pleaded for the werewolf's presence. It really was maddening. It was maddening that now of all times he wanted his loneliness to end. To be ended by Lupin.He cursed himself. Something like this shouldn't have happened to him. It just shouldn't have happened. He had thought that he protected himself well enough against such feelings but he had been terribly mistaken. He had just never met anyone who would have tempted him. Now he knew that ignoring those feelings just didn't work: the more time he spent trying not to think about the werewolf, the stronger his desire grew. Confrontation was even more dangerous, as he'd experienced yesterday. He had ended up in another vulnerable situation, almost jumping headfirst into the kind of relationship he was so cautious of. And since yesterday he had even been worrying if he had hurt the werewolf's feelings by taking flight. He groaned. Frustration again. It was simply unbearable.After having bullied a few students, making one of them cry and giving another detention without achieving the required effect of improving his mood, he dismissed the class and retired to his rooms, sitting down on the sofa with a glass of wine in his hand, staring into the empty fireplace. He didn't hate the werewolf anymore, hadn't even got a good reason left for it. He believed him that he hadn't been in on the prank in their fifth year, and everything else had been reduced to that dull ache, no more flaming anger. The fear was still gnawing at his insides, but ever since the last night when he had lain awake in his bed, staring at the ceiling, as if he could see through the many floors that lay between his bedroom and Lupin's, there had been a new feeling inside him, the feeling that he was missing something, that, actually, the risk might be worth the gain. And hadn't he seen that look in those golden eyes, that look of more than plain affection? Ah, Lupin had already got far too close to him. Like a virus that infected one surreptitiously only to spread throughout one's body rapidly and powerfully, no remedy for it but simple waiting. But no, Lupin was no virus. He would not go away after a while to leave Severus immune to other viruses, he would not even kill Severus, he would stay and get worse.In his imagination he repeated the moment when Lupin had asked him to stay, when he had asked him to use the opportunity. What would have happened if Severus had agreed? What would Lupin have wanted to do, where would he have wanted to go from there? It was agonising not to know. He needed to know. And at the same time, he was too afraid to find out. Would the werewolf even want to hold out his hand again? Would he still claim that there was a connection between them? Something precious? Would he listen to Severus? And what could Severus tell him to show him that he was serious? Did he need to say anything at all? And was he really serious? Did he even want to act on these thoughts? What would it mean if he did? He knew what it could mean open himself emotionally to somebody, what it had meant last time. But did it always end in disaster? Maybe he had only been unlucky all this time and now was his chance. But this vulnerability was something that he could not quite deal with.He took a sip of wine and closed his eyes. He was still confused. Actually he was completely clueless. He wasn't used to this. He felt as if his brain was temporarily out of order, due to overload. He felt helpless. But he needed to make a decision. He couldn't hide in the dungeons forever. Not that he'd have a problem with it, but Albus would drag him out one day and force him to sort out his differences with Lupin, and Severus wanted to spare himself the humiliation. After all, he'd already had enough of that. Self-inflicted.The question was: did he want to give in to fear or to his emotions. In any case it meant giving in. He didn't like to yield to anything. But he only had those two options, so he had to weigh them against each other. Fear was secure. No risk of being hurt or used or rejected, or of losing his reputation. But then again he would never know how it would have been with the werewolf. And what it would have been. So what was he to do, considering that this was probably the last chance of this kind he would be presented with without actively looking for it …Severus knew what attracted him to the other, he had seen it all before running from it. The werewolf was indeed tempting. Severus was quite sure he had never met anyone in his whole life who had been so absolutely tempting to him. In this mysterious way. Making Severus wish to unravel him and relish his success when it was done, jealously concealing from all others what he had found and look at it for hours on end, more fascinated still, he was sure. Severus was sure because, now that he had got to know it, he wanted more of Lupin's understanding. He wanted more fights that he couldn't win, more of Lupin's voice uttering Severus's thoughts. He wanted those eyes to look through him and know. He wanted him to … he wanted him.He opened his eyes. There it was. The answer. It was all he needed to know to make a decision right now. Nothing else mattered at the moment. He drained his wine and got up, determined. He always insisted that he was no coward. He would prove it now. He needed to. Otherwise he would forever regret it – if he didn't seize the chance that was presented to him now, he would forever believe that it had been a mistake or that it could have been. It was worth the risk, at least he hoped so. Perhaps it was wise to just see what became of this connection between them instead of pushing it away without giving it a chance to develop this way or that.And he had to see him now, otherwise he might change his mind again. When Severus left the dungeons, he thought about what to say to the werewolf, how to tell him that he wanted to accept his offer, after all. He felt his hands trembling and balled them into fists. The way up to Lupin's office was not even half as long as it usually was, or so it seemed to Severus. He was surprised when he arrived in the corridor it was situated in, without having found any words to say.Approaching the open door of Lupin's office as silently as he could – and being a spy, that was quite a bit more silent than anyone in this castle could even wish to be – Severus strained his ears to find out if the werewolf was alone. Hearing nothing but what he supposed to be the Kappa's grunting, Severus dared look round the doorframe, creeping along the wall like somebody planning mischief. But that was Lupin's field of expertise, not his. One could fill volumes with the mischief Lupin had got up to while being a student at Hogwarts. If he was still a mischief maker now, apart from what he had done to Severus over the past weeks, was hard to tell. He was too kind and well-mannered to actually seem mischievous, but Severus thought it was still there in his amber eyes when he smiled at him, quite unyielding. As though provoking Severus was his idea of mature mischief. This side of him was quite more interesting nowadays than Severus would have found it in a boy. It was an intriguing contrast to the image Lupin had created for himself. Then again, some students were referring to him as "cool".As Severus peered into the office, he found Lupin standing with his back to the door, poring over some papers on his desk, bent over them with his hands on the desktop. In the corner, the Kappa was bathing in its tank, looking slightly less unhappy than it had yesterday. Severus wondered how anyone could hope to work in peace and quiet with a Dark creature in the office, but Lupin hardly seemed to notice the grunting and splashing – he probably liked the company, Severus thought, company that did not judge him. How silly. But quite understandable. Lupin almost kept those creatures like pets, treating them well, talking to them, possibly even bonding with them. Severus wondered if he might have lost the natural caution one should use when handling those Dark creatures, and the awareness that they were not cuddly things.Severus snapped out of his thoughts when Lupin moved suddenly, straightening up and sighing as he raised a hand to rub the back of his neck, where Severus's intent gaze was directed. The Kappa, Severus noticed as Lupin turned his head slightly to look at it, was fixing Severus with its eyes, as though trying to decide whether he could lure him to the tank and drink his blood without Lupin noticing. Severus did not move, tried not to breathe, but Lupin had already sensed him, had probably been aware of his presence those past minutes."Noticed him, too, have you?" Lupin asked the Kappa, which made a grunting noise in response, eyes never leaving Severus's. "You cannot lure him in, he's too clever for that. I would know, I have tried. You want to save your energy. Next meal tonight."Severus was taken aback by Lupin's behaviour. He would have thought the werewolf would turn round and confront Severus, like he had done yesterday. But he did not address Severus at all, just the Kappa, as though he wanted to leave it up to Severus to decide whether he wanted to come in and talk or not. Lupin wanted to let Severus make the first move, without pressure. Severus shook his head at himself for being such a wimp, took a deep breath, and walked slowly into the office. There was one thing he could say that would tell Lupin what he wanted, without the actual words. He would make Lupin his confidant, after all."It was my father," said Severus quietly, and Lupin turned his head to give him a questioning look over his shoulder – not surprised but expectant. "My father was a Muggle. Not even a Muggle-born wizard. Just a Muggle. Making me quite plainly half-blood, which I am sure you must find positively hypocritical, if not hilarious, considering my background."Lupin turned round, sitting down on the desk, and raised his eyebrows at him, but he did not smile. Cocking his head to one side, he scrutinised Severus with great curiosity. There was a short silence while Severus waited for a verbal reaction and Lupin's golden eyes searched him. When they had found what they'd been looking for Lupin smiled a little, but it was a sad smile. "As you know, I'm half-blood, too, nothing wrong with that," he said mildly, running a hand through his hair to set free his sweet scent. "Actually I find that it makes you more likable. Did you feel ashamed, is that why you did not want to tell me?"Severus gave Lupin a look for finding him likable at all, but it was answered with a broader smile and he sighed, hesitating slightly. "No … no, it was not shame … at least not of that kind," he muttered then and narrowed his eyes at Lupin, scrutinising him to find out if he could tell Lupin even more. Lupin, against all odds, looked like a man who could keep the secrets that were entrusted to him. Averting his eyes so he would not have to look into Lupin's when he spoke, Severus took a deep breath. "He was … not exactly a model father. Neglectful, violent, and unloving. Forever yelling at my mother and me. But no matter how understandingly you are going to look at me, Lupin, I shall not pour out my heart to you or give you any details about my sad childhood, so spare me!"Lupin chuckled at that, quite huskily, and Severus realised how long it had been since he had heard it as he shivered, quite unashamed. But Lupin stopped himself with an apologetic look, smiling sadly again. "I'm sorry, Severus, I didn't know …" he said then, getting up from the desk.Shaking his head, Severus let his eyes roam Lupin's face. "I neither need nor want your pity," he said softly, "it lies in the past."Lupin's smile turned very knowing now, annoyingly so. "No," he said quietly, "no, it is right here, right now. It will stay with you forever. Our parents shape us like no one else. But I don't pity you. You have become who you are because of your father's treatment, you must decide for yourself if that is something to pity you for."Quite an unusual thing to say. Severus could tell that Lupin didn't think that he should regret having become who he was. He could tell by the look in Lupin's eyes. It was more than plain affection. There was a swooping sensation in Severus's stomach and he swallowed, clearing his throat. "Well, I … about yesterday," he said, trying to sound casual and failing dismally. He just couldn't say that he was sorry or that it had been a mistake. He couldn't get out the words. He tried to paraphrase. "Yesterday I didn't mean to –""That's all right," interrupted Lupin, jumping to Severus's dignity's aid as though he had heard it screaming in pain, "I forgive you. Cup of tea?" He indicated the chair before his desk and summoned his teakettle. Severus stepped closer, into the range of Lupin's scent, at the distance where it was faintest, and he saw Lupin's greying hair up close, which was shiny and looked as though it would be soft to the touch. He had never noticed anything like that about anyone else. And there was another thing he noticed, a small scar on Lupin's jaw, white and old, attracting his gaze. Lupin's warmth reached him where he stood but when he sat down, the werewolf smiled and took it with him, pulling it and his scent away from Severus.Once Severus had been served his tea, Lupin took a deep breath and smiled sadly again, looking down into his own cup, which he turned between the palms of his hands. "My father wasn't perfect himself," said Lupin, his hoarse voice very quiet. "Oh, he loved me, no doubt about that, he was always there for me," he said quickly, looking up at Severus as though he had accused his father of being a horrible person. "But it is undeniable that he was at fault for my becoming a werewolf.""How do you mean?" asked Severus, curious now, because despite having known so long that Lupin was a werewolf, he had never, indeed, found out about how he had become one. It didn't seem to be anything Lupin would tell just anyone.Lupin stirred a lump of sugar from a little bowl into his tea. It was quite clearly written on his face that he was having great difficulty talking about this matter. Had perhaps not talked about it for years. "My father used to loathe werewolves, like most magical folk do, and one day he was careless enough to offend Fenrir Greyback. You know Greyback, I presume?" Severus nodded curtly, quite sure that he knew how that story would go on. "Well, Greyback wanted to pay him back for it and when he learned that my father had a small son – me – he positioned himself in front of our house at the full moon, forced his way through the window of my bedroom, and bit me. He wanted to drag me off, of course, like he does all the children he bites. But my father prevented it, he had heard the disturbance, my screams. He came to my aid – literally snatched me out of death's jaws – but it was already too late. I daresay he learnt his lesson. He was so ashamed that he only told me when I had come of age and left Hogwarts."Severus was silent for a few moments, watching Lupin turning his cup between his hands, his amber eyes directed at Severus's lips as though expecting them to say something cruel. But Severus would not be cruel now, he did not know if there was anything else that Lupin could have said that would have suffocated Severus's spite so effectively. Lupin's beloved father, solely at fault for his only son's life of suffering and isolation. It was quite worthy a story to be told in exchange for Severus's few words on his own father. Clearing his throat, Severus felt the urge to say something to break the heavy silence."He did not want you to hate him," he said softly, unsure whether it was true or if it had merely been common cowardice. "Could he have prevented it?"Lupin smiled mirthlessly. "He could have chosen not to insult Greyback," he said simply. "He could have held his tongue, thought of the dangers it posed to his family to be rude to somebody he knew to be dangerous. He should have known better than to treat another human being like vermin only because he was a werewolf. No matter who or what you are, you deserve respect. My father realised this too late."Now Severus didn't know what to say anymore. He felt that this topic was more intimate than he would have liked, judging by Lupin's tone and the way he looked at Severus. Lupin seemed relieved and satisfied that Severus had not tried to judge or abuse his father, whom, Severus understood, he held in very high esteem, despite his mistake of almost thirty years ago. Severus wondered if words of comfort were required now, knowing none, but understood that Lupin simply needed someone to tell his story to, someone who understood. His amber eyes looked straight into Severus's, tranquil and no longer sad. Severus held his gaze, trying to see his soul in Lupin's eyes like the werewolf did in his. He couldn't do it yet, though, didn't have the gift the werewolf had, would probably never acquire it. Maybe he didn't need to. It was intriguing that Lupin could see his thoughts and feelings even though Severus could conceal them even from Dumbledore and the Dark Lord. But he didn't hide much from Severus, either, at least not at this very moment. And Severus was good at recognising expressions, at least. A change of topic was in order."I take it you were not surprised that I came to see you?" Severus said and raised an eyebrow. The werewolf smiled."I wasn't," he said mildly, inclining his head. Severus glowered at him. Again he had been read, again Lupin had known what Severus would do before he had even known it himself. But somehow, it had a singular fascination to it, that gift of Lupin's. "I was sure you'd come, but not what you'd do. Would you hex me or talk to me? Well, needless to say that I'm happy it turned out like this." He chuckled and Severus shivered pleasantly, he almost welcomed it. "May I ask," Lupin said after having taken a sip of his tea, "why you came? What made you change your mind?"Severus hesitated. He had hoped that Lupin would not address this matter. There was nothing about Severus's change of mind that he wanted to share with Lupin at the moment, nothing that he felt safe or confident enough to say. Averting his eyes, Severus stared at the Kappa, folding his arms over his chest as he cast around for something to say. "I have realised that I, too, find our … connection … stimulating," he said slowly, choosing his words carefully as he felt Lupin's eyes searching his face. "Denying or ignoring it does not satisfy me. Doing without it seems undesirable. Against all odds I … appreciate it, and after some careful consideration, I have decided that I want to risk engaging in it. Even if it might mean ending up dying of an overdose of Gryffindor influence." He said "it" because he couldn't say "you". But for Lupin it seemed to be enough. He chuckled huskily and seemed happier at once. And Severus wondered if they expected the same from this connection, if they both hoped for the same outcome, or if Lupin's intention was, after all, different from his. Then he realised that he wasn't even sure what his own intention was."I can assure you that Gryffindorishness does not radiate from me in toxic doses," he said with a wink and his eyes were twinkling. Severus nodded his head slowly and felt embarrassed when he saw a new emotion in those golden eyes: joy. "I am glad that you have decided to acknowledge our connection. I want to 'engage' in it too."Severus wasn't in the slightest surprised by the pleasure this incited in him. His body begged to touch Lupin. Begged to be touched. And wasn't satisfied. Yet. He decided that he had done all he could do today, so he set down his own empty teacup and got to his feet. "Thank you," he said quietly and waited for Lupin to walk to the door and open it.Lupin rose, smiling that smile that touched his eyes and must be at fault for the crinkles round them. Slowly, with measured steps, Lupin approached the door and laid his hand on the knob, but did not turn it. He looked round at Severus again. "I'm relieved," he said softly, "I was worried that we might waste this chance. That you might not want to associate with … with a Dark creature." Lupin's voice sounded strange at the last words and Severus was bewildered for a moment, glancing at the Kappa, that was still eying him as though it thought he was looking rather tasty, indeed, until he realised that Lupin had meant himself. Severus had thought of him as a Dark creature, but only jokingly so. It was odd that Lupin seemed to be serious.It made Severus wonder why Lupin had even wanted him to come, seeing as he must have been very hurt and offended by Severus's behaviour. He even referred to them as "we" now, which had quite an agreeable ring to it. And then it was on Severus's lips, a thought he had fostered for quite a while now, ever since Lupin had called himself a Dark creature that day after the full moon. "You, a Dark creature?" he asked a little harshly. "Who would ever refer to you like that?"And as Lupin pulled the door open unconsciously, there was a startled look on his face, as though he was quite surprised that Severus had not confirmed that he was averse to talking to someone like him. Severus met his amber eyes, making sure that his remark had not been mistaken for sarcasm, and stepped over the threshold. He made to leave without another word but suddenly there was a tingling in his fingers, where Lupin's brushed them in a gesture of holding him back which had been stopped just a little too late.Severus looked down at Lupin's hand, which was now hovering in mid-air one inch from his own. He could feel Lupin's smile before he even saw it. Lupin's lips formed a silent "thank you" and Severus inclined his head in half a nod, waiting for Lupin's averted eyes to show him the werewolf's emotions. He shifted a little to the side, making their fingers touch again as if by accident, warmth spreading up his arm. They had never been closer. Never had Severus smelled Lupin's scent so clearly, and yet he was too distracted to take in what it was. The werewolf looked up at him, that nameless feeling visible in his eyes."You do deserve second chances, you know," Lupin said and lowered his arm, stepping back into his office. "I hope we will repeat this?" Severus inclined his head again and turned to leave, Lupin's sweet scent retreating from his nose, frustratingly unrecognised, when he heard the door close. He touched his fingers where Lupin's had been and tried to remember the sensation.Then he realised that, actually, this outcome had been inevitable ever since their conversation after the Blue Moon. Lupin had touched his soul that day, his well-protected, unreachable, sensitive soul, fragile like the china they had drunk from, offering up his own in return. The fortress Severus had built around his emotions had been snuck into and taken silently by the werewolf, its walls had crumbled under Severus's hands, were crumbling still, unstoppably. And he was grateful that they were, since they had left him as little way out as they had left the world to get in. It was a relief, though still dangerous. They were both made of chipped china, easy to break when handled too carelessly. But china could be mended, as could they.Yes, he thought, we shall repeat it.

	Title: Fortune's Might
	Title: Fortune's Might
	Title:
	 Fortune's Might
	Pairing: SS/RL
	Pairing:
	Disclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.
	Disclaimer
	Author's Note: Sorry for the long wait, I've been on a hiking vacation. It's great how many new followers I've gained :). I hope it gave you time to catch up ... I realise there are many long chapters in this story. I'm all the happier that you take the time to read it. And I'm glad to know that you thought it worth the wait, WTFHP ;).
	Author's Note
	
	Lesson Nine: Hostages To Fortune
	Lesson Nine: Hostages To Fortune
	Severus felt his mood dropping to a new low as he glowered down into a cauldron, looming over its owner during another Potions class. After having run from Lupin's classroom yesterday, he hadn't dared eat in the Great Hall or leave the dungeons for any errand at all. He flooed to the places he needed to go to. He didn't want to risk meeting Lupin. He wasn't entirely sure why he didn't want to meet him. Was it embarrassment, because he had run away? Or was it fear, because it had been hard not to stay last time and it would be even harder next time? Severus supposed it was a bit of both.
	"Er … Professor?" said a hesitant voice from behind the cauldron and Severus directed his glare at its source, a frightened Hufflepuff second-year. "C-can I start brewing now?"
	Severus looked back at the cauldron and then glanced round the classroom. He had completely forgotten where he was, surrounded by Hufflepuffs and Ravenclaws who were brewing a Sleeping Draught. He turned and made his way to his desk before the blackboard. When he sat down, he noticed that he hadn't given the boy a snarky retort at all. He was so preoccupied with Lupin that he was growing careless. He heaved a sigh and fixed his eyes on his hands, folded in his lap. It was maddening. He could face the Dark Lord as a spy and lie to him, but he couldn't face Lupin and tell him to leave him alone. Because he knew the werewolf was right: actually, he didn't want Lupin to leave him alone. He was scared of himself, scared he might lose control one day and just burst out with the truth. He did not know what on earth had got into him. Why did the one person who could affect him like this turn up at Hogwarts? Severus suspected Albus to be behind this, suspected some deeper plan behind Lupin's appointment. He shook his head at himself. How ridiculous. Albus knew him too well. He probably thought it enjoyable to see Severus struggling with Lupin. He would not even think of the possibility that Severus might want more from the werewolf. That he wished he could touch him properly. Be touched by him.
	Severus shivered. He wondered how it would feel. How Lupin would feel. Warm. Yes, definitely warm. Severus could barely remember how it felt to have arms embracing him, to have someone so close to him that he could really feel them. He hadn't longed for it in the past. But he did long for Lupin. Long for his touch. A brush of his fingers, a hand on his arm. Anything would be fine. If he would only touch him. And maybe, if they were so close, he would finally be able to recognise that mysterious, sweet scent Lupin had about him. It was almost a plan now, almost a likely thing to happen.
	Lupin 
	feel
	Noticing that his eyes were unfocused, Severus snapped out of his pathetic daydream. He should not even think about thinking about such possibilities. He should not even acknowledge them as possibilities. Looking forward to it, wondering how it would be, and feeling that it might indeed happen was neither helpful nor appropriate in his current situation. Or any situation, really. Severus had stopped trying to deny his feelings for the werewolf, but that did not mean that he could indulge in thoughts and dreams that revolved around acting on them. But as it seemed, he had not the slightest command over his defiant subconscious. Usually he could control his thoughts and feelings, at least in situations that he was used. It was disturbing that he did now, he could slap himself for it. And Lupin, too. After all, it was all his fault! A good hex between the eyes would serve him right.
	Why couldn't Severus hate the werewolf in peace? Why did Lupin have to be such a tempting mystery? And why, for Merlin's sake, did he have to offer Severus … something? Couldn't he just hate Severus like every silly Gryffindor would? Everything would be so much easier. But at the same time, Severus felt longingly curious about Lupin's something … perhaps it was, well, the something. He couldn't even think what he wanted it to be. His mind forbade it. The rational part at least. The irrational part pleaded for the werewolf's presence. It really was maddening. It was maddening that now of all times he wanted his loneliness to end. To be ended by Lupin.
	something
	something
	the
	He cursed himself. Something like this shouldn't have happened to him. It just shouldn't have happened. He had thought that he protected himself well enough against such feelings but he had been terribly mistaken. He had just never met anyone who would have tempted him. Now he knew that ignoring those feelings just didn't work: the more time he spent trying not to think about the werewolf, the stronger his desire grew. Confrontation was even more dangerous, as he'd experienced yesterday. He had ended up in another vulnerable situation, almost jumping headfirst into the kind of relationship he was so cautious of. And since yesterday he had even been worrying if he had hurt the werewolf's feelings by taking flight. He groaned. Frustration again. It was simply unbearable.
	After having bullied a few students, making one of them cry and giving another detention without achieving the required effect of improving his mood, he dismissed the class and retired to his rooms, sitting down on the sofa with a glass of wine in his hand, staring into the empty fireplace. He didn't hate the werewolf anymore, hadn't even got a good reason left for it. He believed him that he hadn't been in on the prank in their fifth year, and everything else had been reduced to that dull ache, no more flaming anger. The fear was still gnawing at his insides, but ever since the last night when he had lain awake in his bed, staring at the ceiling, as if he could see through the many floors that lay between his bedroom and Lupin's, there had been a new feeling inside him, the feeling that he was missing something, that, actually, the risk might be worth the gain. And hadn't he seen that look in those golden eyes, that look of more than plain affection? Ah, Lupin had already got far too close to him. Like a virus that infected one surreptitiously only to spread throughout one's body rapidly and powerfully, no remedy for it but simple waiting. But no, Lupin was no virus. He would not go away after a while to leave Severus immune to other viruses, he would not even kill Severus, he would stay and get worse.
	In his imagination he repeated the moment when Lupin had asked him to stay, when he had asked him to use the opportunity. What would have happened if Severus had agreed? What would Lupin have wanted to do, where would he have wanted to go from there? It was agonising not to know. He needed to know. And at the same time, he was too afraid to find out. Would the werewolf even want to hold out his hand again? Would he still claim that there was a connection between them? Something precious? Would he listen to Severus? And what could Severus tell him to show him that he was serious? Did he need to say anything at all? And was he really serious? Did he even want to act on these thoughts? What would it mean if he did? He knew what it could mean open himself emotionally to somebody, what it had meant last time. But did it always end in disaster? Maybe he had only been unlucky all this time and now was his chance. But this vulnerability was something that he could not quite deal with.
	He took a sip of wine and closed his eyes. He was still confused. Actually he was completely clueless. He wasn't used to this. He felt as if his brain was temporarily out of order, due to overload. He felt helpless. But he needed to make a decision. He couldn't hide in the dungeons forever. Not that he'd have a problem with it, but Albus would drag him out one day and force him to sort out his differences with Lupin, and Severus wanted to spare himself the humiliation. After all, he'd already had enough of that. Self-inflicted.
	The question was: did he want to give in to fear or to his emotions. In any case it meant giving in. He didn't like to yield to anything. But he only had those two options, so he had to weigh them against each other. Fear was secure. No risk of being hurt or used or rejected, or of losing his reputation. But then again he would never know how it would have been with the werewolf. And what it would have been. So what was he to do, considering that this was probably the last chance of this kind he would be presented with without actively looking for it …
	Severus knew what attracted him to the other, he had seen it all before running from it. The werewolf was indeed tempting. Severus was quite sure he had never met anyone in his whole life who had been so absolutely tempting to him. In this mysterious way. Making Severus wish to unravel him and relish his success when it was done, jealously concealing from all others what he had found and look at it for hours on end, more fascinated still, he was sure. Severus was sure because, now that he had got to know it, he wanted more of Lupin's understanding. He wanted more fights that he couldn't win, more of Lupin's voice uttering Severus's thoughts. He wanted those eyes to look through him and know. He wanted him to … he wanted him.
	know
	him
	He opened his eyes. There it was. The answer. It was all he needed to know to make a decision right now. Nothing else mattered at the moment. He drained his wine and got up, determined. He always insisted that he was no coward. He would prove it now. He needed to. Otherwise he would forever regret it – if he didn't seize the chance that was presented to him now, he would forever believe that it had been a mistake or that it could have been. It was worth the risk, at least he hoped so. Perhaps it was wise to just see what became of this connection between them instead of pushing it away without giving it a chance to develop this way or that.
	And he had to see him now, otherwise he might change his mind again. When Severus left the dungeons, he thought about what to say to the werewolf, how to tell him that he wanted to accept his offer, after all. He felt his hands trembling and balled them into fists. The way up to Lupin's office was not even half as long as it usually was, or so it seemed to Severus. He was surprised when he arrived in the corridor it was situated in, without having found any words to say.
	Approaching the open door of Lupin's office as silently as he could – and being a spy, that was quite a bit more silent than anyone in this castle could even wish to be – Severus strained his ears to find out if the werewolf was alone. Hearing nothing but what he supposed to be the Kappa's grunting, Severus dared look round the doorframe, creeping along the wall like somebody planning mischief. But that was Lupin's field of expertise, not his. One could fill volumes with the mischief Lupin had got up to while being a student at Hogwarts. If he was still a mischief maker now, apart from what he had done to Severus over the past weeks, was hard to tell. He was too kind and well-mannered to actually seem mischievous, but Severus thought it was still there in his amber eyes when he smiled at him, quite unyielding. As though provoking Severus was his idea of mature mischief. This side of him was quite more interesting nowadays than Severus would have found it in a boy. It was an intriguing contrast to the image Lupin had created for himself. Then again, some students were referring to him as "cool".
	As Severus peered into the office, he found Lupin standing with his back to the door, poring over some papers on his desk, bent over them with his hands on the desktop. In the corner, the Kappa was bathing in its tank, looking slightly less unhappy than it had yesterday. Severus wondered how anyone could hope to work in peace and quiet with a Dark creature in the office, but Lupin hardly seemed to notice the grunting and splashing – he probably liked the company, Severus thought, company that did not judge him. How silly. But quite understandable. Lupin almost kept those creatures like pets, treating them well, talking to them, possibly even bonding with them. Severus wondered if he might have lost the natural caution one should use when handling those Dark creatures, and the awareness that they were not cuddly things.
	Severus snapped out of his thoughts when Lupin moved suddenly, straightening up and sighing as he raised a hand to rub the back of his neck, where Severus's intent gaze was directed. The Kappa, Severus noticed as Lupin turned his head slightly to look at it, was fixing Severus with its eyes, as though trying to decide whether he could lure him to the tank and drink his blood without Lupin noticing. Severus did not move, tried not to breathe, but Lupin had already sensed him, had probably been aware of his presence those past minutes.
	"Noticed him, too, have you?" Lupin asked the Kappa, which made a grunting noise in response, eyes never leaving Severus's. "You cannot lure him in, he's too clever for that. I would know, I have tried. You want to save your energy. Next meal tonight."
	Severus was taken aback by Lupin's behaviour. He would have thought the werewolf would turn round and confront Severus, like he had done yesterday. But he did not address Severus at all, just the Kappa, as though he wanted to leave it up to Severus to decide whether he wanted to come in and talk or not. Lupin wanted to let Severus make the first move, without pressure. Severus shook his head at himself for being such a wimp, took a deep breath, and walked slowly into the office. There was one thing he could say that would tell Lupin what he wanted, without the actual words. He would make Lupin his confidant, after all.
	"It was my father," said Severus quietly, and Lupin turned his head to give him a questioning look over his shoulder – not surprised but expectant. "My father was a Muggle. Not even a Muggle-born wizard. Just a Muggle. Making me quite plainly half-blood, which I am sure you must find positively hypocritical, if not hilarious, considering my background."
	Lupin turned round, sitting down on the desk, and raised his eyebrows at him, but he did not smile. Cocking his head to one side, he scrutinised Severus with great curiosity. There was a short silence while Severus waited for a verbal reaction and Lupin's golden eyes searched him. When they had found what they'd been looking for Lupin smiled a little, but it was a sad smile. "As you know, I'm half-blood, too, nothing wrong with that," he said mildly, running a hand through his hair to set free his sweet scent. "Actually I find that it makes you more likable. Did you feel ashamed, is that why you did not want to tell me?"
	Severus gave Lupin a look for finding him likable at all, but it was answered with a broader smile and he sighed, hesitating slightly. "No … no, it was not shame … at least not of that kind," he muttered then and narrowed his eyes at Lupin, scrutinising him to find out if he could tell Lupin even more. Lupin, against all odds, looked like a man who could keep the secrets that were entrusted to him. Averting his eyes so he would not have to look into Lupin's when he spoke, Severus took a deep breath. "He was … not exactly a model father. Neglectful, violent, and unloving. Forever yelling at my mother and me. But no matter how understandingly you are going to look at me, Lupin, I shall not pour out my heart to you or give you any details about my sad childhood, so spare me!"
	Lupin chuckled at that, quite huskily, and Severus realised how long it had been since he had heard it as he shivered, quite unashamed. But Lupin stopped himself with an apologetic look, smiling sadly again. "I'm sorry, Severus, I didn't know …" he said then, getting up from the desk.
	Shaking his head, Severus let his eyes roam Lupin's face. "I neither need nor want your pity," he said softly, "it lies in the past."
	Lupin's smile turned very knowing now, annoyingly so. "No," he said quietly, "no, it is right here, right now. It will stay with you forever. Our parents shape us like no one else. But I don't pity you. You have become who you are because of your father's treatment, you must decide for yourself if that is something to pity you for."
	Quite an unusual thing to say. Severus could tell that Lupin didn't think that he should regret having become who he was. He could tell by the look in Lupin's eyes. It was more than plain affection. There was a swooping sensation in Severus's stomach and he swallowed, clearing his throat. "Well, I … about yesterday," he said, trying to sound casual and failing dismally. He just couldn't say that he was sorry or that it had been a mistake. He couldn't get out the words. He tried to paraphrase. "Yesterday I didn't mean to –"
	"That's all right," interrupted Lupin, jumping to Severus's dignity's aid as though he had heard it screaming in pain, "I forgive you. Cup of tea?" He indicated the chair before his desk and summoned his teakettle. Severus stepped closer, into the range of Lupin's scent, at the distance where it was faintest, and he saw Lupin's greying hair up close, which was shiny and looked as though it would be soft to the touch. He had never noticed anything like that about anyone else. And there was another thing he noticed, a small scar on Lupin's jaw, white and old, attracting his gaze. Lupin's warmth reached him where he stood but when he sat down, the werewolf smiled and took it with him, pulling it and his scent away from Severus.
	Once Severus had been served his tea, Lupin took a deep breath and smiled sadly again, looking down into his own cup, which he turned between the palms of his hands. "My father wasn't perfect himself," said Lupin, his hoarse voice very quiet. "Oh, he loved me, no doubt about that, he was always there for me," he said quickly, looking up at Severus as though he had accused his father of being a horrible person. "But it is undeniable that he was at fault for my becoming a werewolf."
	"How do you mean?" asked Severus, curious now, because despite having known so long that Lupin was a werewolf, he had never, indeed, found out about how he had become one. It didn't seem to be anything Lupin would tell just anyone.
	Lupin stirred a lump of sugar from a little bowl into his tea. It was quite clearly written on his face that he was having great difficulty talking about this matter. Had perhaps not talked about it for years. "My father used to loathe werewolves, like most magical folk do, and one day he was careless enough to offend Fenrir Greyback. You know Greyback, I presume?" Severus nodded curtly, quite sure that he knew how that story would go on. "Well, Greyback wanted to pay him back for it and when he learned that my father had a small son – me – he positioned himself in front of our house at the full moon, forced his way through the window of my bedroom, and bit me. He wanted to drag me off, of course, like he does all the children he bites. But my father prevented it, he had heard the disturbance, my screams. He came to my aid – literally snatched me out of death's jaws – but it was already too late. I daresay he learnt his lesson. He was so ashamed that he only told me when I had come of age and left Hogwarts."
	Severus was silent for a few moments, watching Lupin turning his cup between his hands, his amber eyes directed at Severus's lips as though expecting them to say something cruel. But Severus would not be cruel now, he did not know if there was anything else that Lupin could have said that would have suffocated Severus's spite so effectively. Lupin's beloved father, solely at fault for his only son's life of suffering and isolation. It was quite worthy a story to be told in exchange for Severus's few words on his own father. Clearing his throat, Severus felt the urge to say something to break the heavy silence.
	"He did not want you to hate him," he said softly, unsure whether it was true or if it had merely been common cowardice. "Could he have prevented it?"
	Lupin smiled mirthlessly. "He could have chosen not to insult Greyback," he said simply. "He could have held his tongue, thought of the dangers it posed to his family to be rude to somebody he knew to be dangerous. He should have known better than to treat another human being like vermin only because he was a werewolf. No matter who or what you are, you deserve respect. My father realised this too late."
	Now Severus didn't know what to say anymore. He felt that this topic was more intimate than he would have liked, judging by Lupin's tone and the way he looked at Severus. Lupin seemed relieved and satisfied that Severus had not tried to judge or abuse his father, whom, Severus understood, he held in very high esteem, despite his mistake of almost thirty years ago. Severus wondered if words of comfort were required now, knowing none, but understood that Lupin simply needed someone to tell his story to, someone who understood. His amber eyes looked straight into Severus's, tranquil and no longer sad. Severus held his gaze, trying to see his soul in Lupin's eyes like the werewolf did in his. He couldn't do it yet, though, didn't have the gift the werewolf had, would probably never acquire it. Maybe he didn't need to. It was intriguing that Lupin could see his thoughts and feelings even though Severus could conceal them even from Dumbledore and the Dark Lord. But he didn't hide much from Severus, either, at least not at this very moment. And Severus was good at recognising expressions, at least. A change of topic was in order.
	"I take it you were not surprised that I came to see you?" Severus said and raised an eyebrow. The werewolf smiled.
	"I wasn't," he said mildly, inclining his head. Severus glowered at him. Again he had been read, again Lupin had known what Severus would do before he had even known it himself. But somehow, it had a singular fascination to it, that gift of Lupin's. "I was sure you'd come, but not what you'd do. Would you hex me or talk to me? Well, needless to say that I'm happy it turned out like this." He chuckled and Severus shivered pleasantly, he almost welcomed it. "May I ask," Lupin said after having taken a sip of his tea, "why you came? What made you change your mind?"
	Severus hesitated. He had hoped that Lupin would not address this matter. There was nothing about Severus's change of mind that he wanted to share with Lupin at the moment, nothing that he felt safe or confident enough to say. Averting his eyes, Severus stared at the Kappa, folding his arms over his chest as he cast around for something to say. "I have realised that I, too, find our … connection … stimulating," he said slowly, choosing his words carefully as he felt Lupin's eyes searching his face. "Denying or ignoring it does not satisfy me. Doing without it seems undesirable. Against all odds I … appreciate it, and after some careful consideration, I have decided that I want to risk engaging in it. Even if it might mean ending up dying of an overdose of Gryffindor influence." He said "it" because he couldn't say "you". But for Lupin it seemed to be enough. He chuckled huskily and seemed happier at once. And Severus wondered if they expected the same from this connection, if they both hoped for the same outcome, or if Lupin's intention was, after all, different from his. Then he realised that he wasn't even sure what his own intention was.
	connection
	"I can assure you that Gryffindorishness does not radiate from me in toxic doses," he said with a wink and his eyes were twinkling. Severus nodded his head slowly and felt embarrassed when he saw a new emotion in those golden eyes: joy. "I am glad that you have decided to acknowledge our connection. I want to 'engage' in it too."
	Severus wasn't in the slightest surprised by the pleasure this incited in him. His body begged to touch Lupin. Begged to be touched. And wasn't satisfied. Yet. He decided that he had done all he could do today, so he set down his own empty teacup and got to his feet. "Thank you," he said quietly and waited for Lupin to walk to the door and open it.
	Lupin rose, smiling that smile that touched his eyes and must be at fault for the crinkles round them. Slowly, with measured steps, Lupin approached the door and laid his hand on the knob, but did not turn it. He looked round at Severus again. "I'm relieved," he said softly, "I was worried that we might waste this chance. That you might not want to associate with … with a Dark creature." Lupin's voice sounded strange at the last words and Severus was bewildered for a moment, glancing at the Kappa, that was still eying him as though it thought he was looking rather tasty, indeed, until he realised that Lupin had meant himself. Severus had thought of him as a Dark creature, but only jokingly so. It was odd that Lupin seemed to be serious.
	It made Severus wonder why Lupin had even wanted him to come, seeing as he must have been very hurt and offended by Severus's behaviour. He even referred to them as "we" now, which had quite an agreeable ring to it. And then it was on Severus's lips, a thought he had fostered for quite a while now, ever since Lupin had called himself a Dark creature that day after the full moon. "You, a Dark creature?" he asked a little harshly. "Who would ever refer to you like that?"
	And as Lupin pulled the door open unconsciously, there was a startled look on his face, as though he was quite surprised that Severus had not confirmed that he was averse to talking to someone like him. Severus met his amber eyes, making sure that his remark had not been mistaken for sarcasm, and stepped over the threshold. He made to leave without another word but suddenly there was a tingling in his fingers, where Lupin's brushed them in a gesture of holding him back which had been stopped just a little too late.
	Severus looked down at Lupin's hand, which was now hovering in mid-air one inch from his own. He could feel Lupin's smile before he even saw it. Lupin's lips formed a silent "thank you" and Severus inclined his head in half a nod, waiting for Lupin's averted eyes to show him the werewolf's emotions. He shifted a little to the side, making their fingers touch again as if by accident, warmth spreading up his arm. They had never been closer. Never had Severus smelled Lupin's scent so clearly, and yet he was too distracted to take in what it was. The werewolf looked up at him, that nameless feeling visible in his eyes.
	"You do deserve second chances, you know," Lupin said and lowered his arm, stepping back into his office. "I hope we will repeat this?" Severus inclined his head again and turned to leave, Lupin's sweet scent retreating from his nose, frustratingly unrecognised, when he heard the door close. He touched his fingers where Lupin's had been and tried to remember the sensation.
	Then he realised that, actually, this outcome had been inevitable ever since their conversation after the Blue Moon. Lupin had touched his soul that day, his well-protected, unreachable, sensitive soul, fragile like the china they had drunk from, offering up his own in return. The fortress Severus had built around his emotions had been snuck into and taken silently by the werewolf, its walls had crumbled under Severus's hands, were crumbling still, unstoppably. And he was grateful that they were, since they had left him as little way out as they had left the world to get in. It was a relief, though still dangerous. They were both made of chipped china, easy to break when handled too carelessly. But china could be mended, as could they.
	Yes, he thought, we shall repeat it.
	Yes
	we shall repeat it
	
Title: Fortune's MightPairing: SS/RLDisclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.Author's Note: So here I go again, trying to speak with Severus's poetic voice ... I tried to take most of the sappy parts and transorm them into something more authentic than the original version.Lesson Ten: Bel EspritSeverus had hoped that his head would clear a little, once he had made the decision to stop pushing Lupin away. But he had been mistaken. His head was still buzzing. It wasn't as if he was still wondering if he had done the right thing, whether it had been right to give up the safety of isolation in favour of allowing a relationship to form – for he had admitted that that was the most accurate term to describe the connection between them. He did not doubt that it had been right to take a risk to receive from the werewolf what he had to give. Yet, Severus was troubled. He couldn't lay his finger on it, but something was still troubling him.Perhaps it was the mere fact that something about Lupin had changed. It wasn't so much his behaviour, though he did seem even kinder to Severus when they came across each other, it was predominantly in his smile. It was not the polite, customary smile that everybody received. It was new, special. As though it was only for Severus. And Severus, having stopped avoiding Lupin, now saw a lot of that smile. At meals, in corridors and hallways, in staircases and the staffroom, Lupin would always give Severus that smile, somewhat sweet, like the scent that always lingered in his wake. Severus was so intrigued, he even caught himself taking detours, just so he would meet Lupin and receive that smile. He wished that there was not only the possibility of bottling fame, but also of capturing that sweet smile in a phial, so he could look at it whenever he felt like it. And he felt like it rather often. Which made him nervous, because Lupin's influence was growing gradually. But he did his best to conceal it when he encountered the werewolf. Admittedly, if he knew Lupin at all, the werewolf would see it anyway.For five long days, Severus had not had any private meetings with Lupin. Severus blamed it on their workload, but he knew, deep within, that he simply couldn't ask Lupin to tea. He could not quite explain it, he wasn't usually a timid man. But over this matter he was constantly fussing. Lupin would have to take the next step, because Severus would not be able to overcome this invisible barrier that prevented him from approaching Lupin and asking for some private time together. Perhaps it was the mere possibility that Lupin might reject him. Or maybe Severus just didn't want to make Lupin think that he wanted to go out with him. It would be mortifying to see the look on Lupin's face when he found out that Severus was – he daren't even say it out loud – attracted to him. But it was undeniable. It was growing more evident by the day.It was most annoying that he yearned for Lupin's presence in the evening, after a day of teaching and brewing, when he would usually feel tired. More and more often, Severus found his mind wandering into most unusual and unwanted directions when thinking about Lupin. He missed his husky chuckle when the silence in his rooms pressed in on him, and the depths of his eyes when he could not look into any eyes but his students' blank and pitiably shallow ones. Severus found that Lupin's eyes looked quite like freshly brewed cauldrons of Felix Felicis, swirling when emotion stirred them, like a potion when the ladle touched it. They were warm and promising. Like liquid luck. Whenever Severus caught his thoughts straying into such embarrassing directions, he stopped them forcefully. But most of the time they would warm his body before he even realised it. And the wish to be alone with Lupin was growing. He couldn't stand not knowing when it would be possible again.The only times when Severus met Lupin were those casual every day occasions in the staffroom and the Great Hall. What surprised Severus was that the werewolf kept the required distance. Apart from a smile now and then, a greeting when no one was looking, he made no attempt to talk to him while they were in company. During meals he was seated at the other end of the table, anyway. In the staffroom he would normally sit with McGonagall or one of the other teachers he had grown very friendly with, and Severus found himself magnetically, almost jealously, drawn to the werewolf, sitting down opposite, though never next to him.Severus was already subconsciously hoping that there would be enough room to sit down close to Lupin again today when he ascended the stairs to the Entrance Hall to spend a free period in the staffroom. Up to now, Lupin's scent had not yet been strong enough to finally recognise it among the perfumes of the witches usually sitting with him, or, indeed, the smell of the potions and explosions from Severus's own classroom. At least sitting opposite him Severus could not hope to ever breathe it in deeply enough and it was a little mystery of its own, one that he thought he would only solve once he got so close that they would touch – not just a brushing of fingers like a week ago, but a real touch, no gap left between them.Shivering with the mere idea, Severus strode across the Entrance Hall and almost bumped into the object of his inappropriate desire. Lupin was just walking from the front doors towards the marble staircase, looking slightly windswept and rosy-cheeked. Severus stopped dead, suddenly nervous, his head light. They were alone, nobody was even close by. Lupin came to a halt as well and smiled his special smile at Severus, shaking his disheveled hair out of his eyes. He was rather close, so Severus took a deep breath to see if the sweet scent was in the air again, but as it seemed the wind had swept it away when whipping round Lupin's body outside. Today the werewolf smelled fresh, like cold air and autumn leaves."Good day to you, Severus," said Lupin cheerfully, and Severus had the impression that he was inching closer rather surreptitiously, as though trying to see how far he could go without making Severus uncomfortable. He sensed, as usual, the exact distance he had to stop at. "Is it your free period too? I have been to Hogsmeade to buy something to drink – oh, no alcohol!" he added when Severus shot him a mockingly disapproving look. "Butterbeer." And he pulled a bottle from his pocket."I see," said Severus and did not know how to continue. His throat felt dry. His head felt empty. He cursed himself for being incapable of talking to Lupin. The werewolf's amber eyes were in the way, so was his hair, falling nonchalantly into his eyes, and of course his smile, which reached his eyes and was for Severus only. They rendered Severus speechless. And that was quite some achievement. The crinkles round Lupin's eyes deepened."Would you like to have some with me?" he asked, shaking the bottle. Severus answered without thinking."Too sweet for my taste," he said and Lupin's face fell a little, covered up quickly by a chuckle."That's fine," he said and shrugged, but Severus saw that it wasn't fine. "Were you heading for the staffroom? Can I come with you?"It surprised Severus that he was offered a second, much less obvious chance to agree to spend time together and seized it immediately, so as not to waste it carelessly again. "If you must," he said and wished he could have come up with something better than that, but Lupin seemed satisfied as he stowed the bottle away in his pocket. "Hogsmeade again, yes?" Severus asked, trying to make conversation.Lupin nodded and let his gaze wander over the walls and ceiling as they walked up the marble staircase together. "Yes, I like it there … memories I like to dwell on, shops I like to buy in," he replied, smiling at Severus, "now that I can afford it again. If only I didn't have to pass the Dementors to get there … but I've got enough chocolate on me to keep their effect at bay, and a loyal Patronus, too." He stopped there, did not take charge of the conversation like he usually would, and thus silence fell. Severus couldn't believe that it should be so hard to find a topic to talk about and blamed it on chatty Lupin because it seemed evident that he was keeping silent on purpose, trying to see if Severus really wanted to talk to him. Well, he could have that."Is your Kappa still in good health?" asked Severus sarcastically and achieved the required effect: Lupin chuckled huskily, and as Severus glanced at him he found his face paling again to its usual ivory colour."Oh, he's fine, but he'll have to leave my office for a while," he said hoarsely and sounded just a little regretful. "He's going to move into my rooms until further notice. I am expecting a new guest very soon. A Grindylow. But I still need my Kappa. And I have grown attached to him and my Redcap …"Severus snorted. "You talk about them as though they were pets," he said mockingly and Lupin shrugged."Haven't given them names, though," he said almost defensively, "my father used to say: give them a name and you cannot let go of them anymore. So, I don't give them names. Still hard to let them go." He chuckled again, self-ironically this time."They are not exactly cuddly, though, are they?" said Severus as they arrived at the staffroom, satisfied that he had managed to find a topic they could talk about easily. "You have to watch your back all the time.""Not as long as they aren't hungry," Lupin pointed out, opening the staffroom door and stepping aside to let Severus pass. "And I know my stuff. Keep them under control with a couple of simple spells. Nothing to worry about. It's one of my fields of expertise.""Of course," said Severus silkily, "how could I forget? That is, after all, the reason you are here.""Lucky me," said Lupin with a wink and strolled towards the table to sit down beside McGonagall, who was grading homework and seemed glad of the distraction. Only a few teachers were present, so Severus used the chance to sit down opposite Lupin, which the werewolf rewarded with another one of those smiles. But unfortunately, their conversation was over.While talking to McGonagall, Lupin glanced towards Severus more and more often, searching his eyes, but he didn't seem to dare talk to him. He seemed to respect something that Severus hadn't even voiced, but which obviously showed in his behaviour, or his eyes, or some other part of him that Lupin could read. He respected Severus's wish not to display their relationship to the staff, not to speak of the students. And Severus was grateful for it. He had feared that Lupin would demand friendly treatment and open conversations all the time, that he wouldn't understand that Severus couldn't provide that, not yet, maybe never. It was relieving that Lupin appeared to understand anything.Silence fell for a while as Lupin's eyes strayed out of the window and watched Hagrid throwing an enormous branch for Fang to fetch near the edge of the Forest. Severus looked at the werewolf. Actually he wanted Lupin to talk to him now. Ask him to tea perhaps, very subtly, so Severus could agree and pretend to hate the idea, so that nobody else would realise that he really wanted to see Lupin alone. Though Severus knew that he could not quite make the impression that he loathed Lupin anymore. He supposed his colleagues had come to the conclusion that he had grown tired of loathing Lupin and now accepted him like every other one of his more insufferable colleagues. But no one would even suspect that there was more, he was sure, they had known him for too long to read more into Severus's lack of hostility than he would allow.But that was also a reason to worry. Maybe Lupin, too, thought that he was merely an accepted colleague now and nothing more. Severus shouldn't have declined the Butterbeer. Why would Lupin ask him to tea if he thought that Severus wasn't interested? Severus wished he could make clear to him discreetly that it had really only been the Butterbeer he wasn't interested in. He wanted another meeting, wanted to be alone with Lupin again, but he didn't know how to ask for it without giving away just how much he wanted it. He did not want to expose himself to Lupin again. And apart from that, he was worried. In which way would their connection unfold? How could he steer it into the direction he wanted it to go into? And if it did, would he be able to handle it? Would he be up to it? He had never, after all, had such a relationship. It was troubling, indeed.Sighing in quiet exasperation, he rested his chin on his fist and scowled at Lupin. He wasn't used to this. Whatever this was. It cost him a lot of energy and patience – on which he was short anyway, most of the time. It had been … pleasant to talk to the werewolf, and Severus wished he could just step over the remainders of his fortress's walls to approach him again, but he had no resolution left to do it. Their encounter five days ago had worn him out. Lupin would have to take the next step and Severus felt sure that he would, sooner or later, if only to find out if he was allowed to. Even though it was taking him an extraordinary amount of time already. Severus was sure that he had not changed his mind about … about us, Severus thought, frowning, there is an us. And it was a good thing that Severus knew they would meet in private several times during the week before the full moon at the very last.Suddenly Severus became aware of Lupin's eyes on him, twinkling rather Dumbledorishly. The werewolf's lips were curled into a small smile that looked as though it was stubbornly fighting suppression. Averting his eyes self-consciously, Severus cast around for something to say, nothing too rude but something that would help him cover up that he was unable to ask Lupin to tea himself. Coming up with nothing witty or snide – which was strange enough because he was usually full fit to burst with such remarks, having to keep them in by force – Severus grew nervous under Lupin's golden gaze, which made his skin tingle. He was quite grateful, therefore, when McGonagall decided that she had something more to say to the werewolf and thus distracted him from Severus."Potter asked me to grant him permission to go to Hogsmeade on Hallowe'en, because his aunt and uncle didn't sign his form," she said sternly and Severus rolled his eyes. He would have been grateful for any other topic. Lupin showed far too much interest in the boy already."And did you?" asked Lupin, causing Severus to raise an incredulous eyebrow at him."Of course not!" said McGonagall firmly. "I'm not his guardian, therefore it would be inappropriate."Lupin nodded, seeming relieved. "It is better this way, I'm sure," he said softly, "considering the circumstances. Though I do feel sorry for him. I understand his family don't treat him very well. But leaving the grounds seems unwise for him as long as … Black is on the loose." Lupin hesitated slightly at Black's name and Severus thought it might be because he didn't want to mention Black in front of Severus."I agree, he will have the chance to go to Hogsmeade next year, or as soon as it's safe again," said McGonagall and straightened her spectacles. "It would be far too dangerous to have him wandering about out of Dumbledore's protection. Though I don't believe that Black could sneak into Hogsmeade without anyone noticing."Lupin fidgeted and it attracted Severus's attention. It seemed guilty somehow. "I don't think that we should make the mistake to underestimate him, he did escape from Azkaban, after all," he said heavily."I wonder how he did it …" muttered McGonagall and Lupin fidgeted again."Who knows …" said Lupin quietly and leant back in his chair with a heavy sigh.McGonagall smiled slightly, giving Lupin a sidelong glance. "Let's hope that Potter doesn't get into trouble again," she said and there was teasing in her voice. "He's so much like his father. And I believe we all remember what the four of you got up to at school. Only mischief on your minds and completely unconcerned about rules, not to mention safety."Lupin chuckled and it sounded uneasy. "You have no idea," he muttered, rubbing his neck. Severus noticed that he was avoiding her eyes. And Severus's."Potter is exactly like his father, a rule-breaker and troublemaker," sneered Severus and the other two looked at him. "He thinks himself a great hero, that boy.""Well, whatever you say, Severus, up to now Potter has always acted nobly to help others, and he always succeeds in his endeavours," said McGonagall and sounded a little too proud. She seemed to notice, for she hastened to add, "Not that I approve of his rule breaking.""Oh, yes, if we hadn't got Potter to stop all the evil in the world we would all be lost," retorted Severus, his voice dripping with sarcasm. "Let's make a parade for him. Actually, I am surprised that such a thing has not been thought of yet. 'The Harry Potter Day Parade' …" McGonagall scowled at him and Lupin raised his eyebrows."Harry is quite the hero, isn't he?" asked the werewolf thoughtfully. "Even I heard of the Basilisk and the encounter with Lord Voldemort in the depths of this school." He gave McGonagall a look as she flinched and his eyes flickered towards Severus, who glowered at him. "I am afraid that maybe one day he could run out of luck …""Hopefully," muttered Severus and earned himself scandalised looks from both of them. "Maybe the thought of Death coming for him in the form a giant black dog will prevent him leaping headfirst into life-threatening danger this year. But after all, not even the Monster of Slytherin was enough to scare him …" Severus almost regretted that the beast hadn't eaten Potter."He's brave," said Lupin, shrugging."He's a Gryffindor," McGonagall agreed proudly.Severus rolled his eyes. He's stupid, was what he wanted to say but he didn't want to annoy Lupin. Actually, on second thought, he did. A nice flash of anger would suit him well right now. But Severus had already missed the moment, the two Gryffindors had started talking again."Has Harry seen a black dog at all?" Lupin asked and Severus couldn't believe that the werewolf was so superstitious."Why, Lupin, you don't believe that a giant dog is following the boy around to bite his head off, do you?" he sneered and Lupin looked at him, his golden eyes worried."Of course not," he replied but Severus didn't quite believe him and even less when Lupin flinched as Fang barked outside, rather closer to the window than before."Potter hasn't talked to me about any such thing," said McGonagall, ignoring Severus altogether, "and I doubt if he would confide in me even if he had seen the Grim or any other ridiculous omen of death."Though Lupin nodded, he seemed more worried than ever. It was curious. Severus wanted to get to the bottom of it. But not here and now, that would be inappropriate. So they spent the rest of their free period talking about lighter topics and accepting shortbread from a tin that McGonagall held out to them. When they left the staffroom together to be on time for their lessons, Severus had the impression that Lupin brushed against him deliberately as they passed through the doorway at the same time. Their arms touched lightly, and Lupin was careful not to meet Severus's eyes, smiling silently to himself. Watching him walk away, Severus waited until he had disappeared round a corner before he set off, too.There were no exploding cauldrons, which made his afternoon classes much more pleasant than usual. Still he was looking forward to dinner, or rather to seeing Lupin again, rather more than was normal. But he was disappointed. When he entered the Great Hall, Lupin was not there and he did not arrive late, either. It was as though six cauldrons had exploded, after all. Severus chewed his lamb chops listlessly, wondering if Lupin was overworked and couldn't attend dinner because he had to grade homework. Cursing himself for not finding it in himself to simply visit him and ask for one of his teabags, Severus returned to his office. He didn't know what to say or do. He grew nervous whenever he thought about meeting Lupin in private, unprepared. He was worried that he'd end up revealing even more of himself to Lupin. And really, what if he said something harsh or rude again? He just couldn't control himself sometimes, it was only a matter of time. Lupin's patience surely wasn't endless. What if Severus said something utterly wrong? He would surely make a mess of things. And it would be Lupin who didn't want to associate with him anymore. Everything would have been in vain.Entering his laboratory, Severus loosened his cravat and opened the topmost buttons of his shirt, heaving a sigh. He was facing yet another silent evening in his rooms. It was annoying that he even cared. He had never minded silence before. Severus lifted a cauldron onto the worktable and lit a fire underneath it, setting to work. He noticed almost too late that he was about to slice wolfsbane instead of daisy root. Restraining himself from hurling the knife across the room, Severus put the wolfsbane away. When he was starting to slice the daisy root, there was a knock on the door that caused him to look up. Who dared to disturb him now? Usually nobody knocked on his laboratory door, only Albus. After all, they would have to enter his office unasked. Impertinent."Who is it?" he called and started when he heard a hoarse voice answering."It is I, Remus … may I come in?"There was that swooping sensation in Severus's stomach and he caught himself liking the fact that Lupin would give his first name as identification – it indicated familiarity. Hesitating for a few moments, Severus tried to scold himself for that ridiculous thought. When he was unsuccessful, he laid down his knife and took a deep breath. This was what he had been waiting for. Though he had not expected it to happen tonight. He cleared his throat."Enter," he said a little too quietly, but Lupin seemed to have heard, for the door opened and the werewolf entered, smiling, obviously cheerful but tired."Good evening, Severus," he said pleasantly, approaching Severus slowly, looking at the cauldron and ingredients. "You are brewing?"Looking down, Severus took up his knife again to continue slicing the daisy root, double-checking that it really was daisy root this time. "Obviously," he muttered, dropping the daisy root into the cauldron, producing a bubbling noise."Hope I'm not disturbing you," said Lupin politely, but it was obvious what he wanted Severus to say.The same carelessness that had made him decline the Butterbeer, would almost have made Severus say "yes", as he caught himself almost dicing another wrong ingredient. But he bit his tongue, taking the right ingredient, and shook his head. He did not want Lupin to leave, after all. At least he thought he didn't. "I doubt that it will be entertaining to watch me brewing, though," he said and felt self-conscious again. Brewing never made him feel self-conscious. That man turned everything upside down. Severus dropped the diced gingerroot into the cauldron and watched the potion change its colour from light blue to red. Severus stirred it once clockwise and twice anticlockwise. Again it changed colour, simmering softly, this time to a pale pink. Severus nodded in satisfaction."Oh, it is entertaining," Lupin said, and when Severus looked up at him in confusion, he added, "It's interesting to watch you. It is inspiring. You really are passionate about potions."Thoughtfully, Severus poured leech juice into the potion, enjoying the pleasant smile on Lupin's face, and stirred again. The smoke rising from the cauldron between them furled round Lupin's face and obscured his golden eyes. Severus couldn't see him properly anymore and waved his hand through the air to clear his view. The melodious simmering of the potion was a nice accompaniment to the werewolf's hoarse voice. Nodding slowly, Severus said, "I am.""I was never much of a potion-brewer myself," remarked Lupin unnecessarily, for Severus remembered their Potions classes very well. "Was always pure torture to me. I was glad to drop it after fifth year. You, on the other hand, don't even need instructions, you even improve existing potions. Some would call you a genius," he added and paused with a smile that brought the swooping back to Severus's stomach."Some might," he conceded truthfully and realised that he was thoroughly enjoying Lupin's praise."I heard that you only take Outstanding students into your NEWT classes …" Lupin continued and his smile became amused, "making sure to get rid of those who don't deserve your attention?"Severus smirked slightly as he cut off the heads of some cockroaches, noticing that Lupin was edging closer to watch. "It is an art, brewing, and it is common knowledge that not everybody is an artist," he said silkily, and enjoyed the werewolf's husky chuckle as the cockroach heads fell into the potion. Severus wanted more of that chuckle. He needed a whole lot of it to store it away for bad times. Which would surely come. Were probably already on their way."I don't have the gift, do I?" Lupin said in amusement, but Severus's smirk vanished."What I said does not apply to you," he muttered, stirring the potion, "I don't have to waste my time teaching you, after all.""Just a joke, Severus," the werewolf said, leaning against the worktable so close to Severus that he was only an inch away from too close. He picked up a rattail thoughtfully, looking at it in silence. Severus remembered that Lupin had seemed appalled by the idea of rats in potions when he had first entered Severus's office. After a few moments, Severus took the rattail out of Lupin's hand to cut it and their fingers brushed, causing Severus to linger for a little longer than absolutely necessary. "Some of those ingredients I will never get used to," said Lupin and made a face when he heard the bone crack under Severus's knife.Severus raised an eyebrow. He was used to the fact that few people understood the beauty of potion-making and the quality of the ingredients needed. But usually he would not bother explaining it to those who were ignorant. Now, though, he felt an inexplicable need to do so. Well, maybe not that inexplicable. So he thought of a metaphor that would make Lupin understand, and had a try."The ingredients are colours and the order in which I add them to the potion is the composition of the picture that I shall paint with them. Though you might not appreciate each colour individually, maybe even despise it for its unpleasant shade, you will see that combined they add up to something far greater and more magnificent than the mere sum of its parts. This –" he said raising his ladle, "is my brush and I am the painter, naturally. And the finished potion –" he poured some of the potion into a glass that was standing beside the cauldron, showing it to Lupin, "is my work of art."The werewolf took the glass from him and his eyes twinkled when he held the potion up to the flickering torchlight, watching the potion change colour from green to blue and back again when he tilted the glass a little. "You must be proud of it."Severus watched him. He liked to see his work finished, perfect and beautiful, but he liked it even more to watch Lupin admiring it. "I invest great effort in it, I perfect recipes and instructions. Sometimes it is dirty and takes a lot of time and hard work, but when it is finished and the result satisfies me, then yes … I think I am proud."Lupin looked at him and smiled. Fondly, Severus thought for a moment before finding it too ridiculous. "Well, you are an excellent Potioneer, maybe even the best," said Lupin, handing Severus back the potion. Severus felt an oddly pleasant surge of pride at those words. As if it meant more when Lupin said it than when anyone else did. Although the werewolf wasn't even close to being an expert. To Severus it meant more than the many awards in his rooms. Looking down into the glass, he saw Lupin's reflection in the potion. How ridiculous, Severus."Maybe I am," he said, rather more modest than he usually was. Noticing again how very close Lupin was standing to him, he felt the warmth radiating from him, and if he had moved his hand but a few inches to the left, it would have touched Lupin's. But Lupin displayed again his excellent feeling for personal space, remaining at the very border of Severus's. Severus turned and summoned a few phials from a cupboard to fill them with the potion, labeling them and laying them down neatly, side by side, on the table. Lupin was still watching him intently.Knowing somehow that the werewolf would be interested, would want to know, like no one else would, Severus felt the urge to tell him more, to tell him about the magnificence of potions that most people didn't recognise. He wanted to tell someone who would truly listen and understand that he did not do it for gold or any other kind of gain, but for reasons too obscure for the ordinary wizard to see. Lupin would see, he would comprehend. Potions were to Severus what Dark creatures were to Lupin. The pleasure of talking to Lupin became evident once more. And suddenly it wasn't difficult anymore – there was a wonderful ease to it that hadn't been there before."You see," Severus said, letting his fingers ghost over the phials, "spells are useful, but most people can cast them more or less successfully. Potion-making is something that you must have a feeling for. You should recognise the beauty of the swirling fumes, rising in all colours and smells from the singing cauldron, promising love and hatred, sanity and madness, life and death with its bubbling voice. If you don't, you will never be much of a potion-brewer. You can keep to the instructions but there is a difference between the stoic mixing of ingredients to achieve a result that merely fulfils its purpose, and the creative and skilful fusing of ingredients, timing, and stirring to produce a potion that is not merely functional, but outstanding and extraordinary in effect. A certain amount of passion is essential," he paused and looked round at Lupin, who was smiling slightly, brows knitted in careful concentration."It must be frustrating that most people don't share your enthusiasm," he said and picked up one of the phials, closing his fist around it. "Though your potion-making deserves some more appreciation, doesn't it? I suppose there is only one student in a hundred who can start to understand what you know."Severus swallowed and, indeed, he felt enthusiastic. "Only a very few understand," he said quietly, "that a potion is almighty. It can control your body and your mind. It can mean the difference between life and death, it can wash away sicknesses, wounds, and pain."It can be liquid love, creating an illusion so perfect that you will never be able to tell lover from enemy."It can reveal the darkest of truths no matter how deeply it is buried, how cleverly concealed behind the thickest of walls constructed of lies."A potion can even tame the savage beast that lurks within you, waiting impatiently for the next opportunity to break loose. It can shackle the wolf to the very back of your mind, freeing you from the danger its sharp fangs pose, loosening the eternal hold it has on you," Severus concluded, his eyes meeting the werewolf's, whose expression had become quite unfathomable when Severus had mentioned the Wolfsbane Potion. Lupin's lips were slightly parted, and he was rolling the phial with potion between his deft fingers. For a few suffocating moments, Severus believed he had gone too far.There was a short silence until Lupin set down the phial beside the others, carefully and neatly. When he turned to Severus again, though, with a raised eyebrow and a vague smile, resting his hand on the worktable, he looked as if he had just received a valuable gift from Severus. "You are a poet, Severus," he said quietly, the firelight reflected in his golden eyes. "When you talk about potions, it sounds so effortless. I wonder why you cannot seem to captivate your students. Personally, I enjoy listening to you very much."Severus didn't know what to reply. Usually, nobody said so many nice things to him in one breath. Not that he cared. But when Lupin said such things, it seemed to matter. And Severus felt proud. Had he really said he enjoyed listening to Severus? Could it be true? Well, Lupin was rather peculiar … Maybe he was peculiar enough to actually mean what he said."As I said, the beauty of potions is not visible to everybody. But there are some who can make it out when taught how to see it," he said"It is rather a beautiful potion, this one," Lupin said, nodding at the potion that was still changing colour in the torchlight. Severus raised an eyebrow."If you believe it or not, this potion has a purpose other than delighting naïve Gryffindors, such as yourself," he replied coolly and took the freshly brewed potion to the shelves in his storage chamber. "As it happens, quite ironically, if you were to drink it, it would kill you instantly, so beware."Lupin chuckled and Severus was relieved despite himself that he had not offended the werewolf. That he was still granted the pleasure of his husky chuckle, and that he was bestowed with another smile that made Severus's head light. Lupin's light brown hair was shimmering in the torchlight, framing the mellow, pale skin of his too tired face. Severus noticed the faint scar on the werewolf's chin that reminded him of the beast that lived within, and it seemed suddenly utterly unreal to him that this kind and gentle man transformed into a savage wolf once a month."Sometimes the most beautiful of things tend to kill us …" he muttered and Lupin gave him a curious look."I'm glad I decided to visit you today," Lupin said quietly and slowly made for the door of the lab. At the door, he turned and gave Severus a knee-weakening smile. "Thank you for letting me watch. I'll see you tomorrow, then. Goodnight, Severus," he said warmly and left, closing the door behind him. Severus stared at the door and wished he'd been able to ask Lupin to stay for a cup of tea. Without him there, the dungeon was even colder and emptier than before. Much more silent, too.Maybe Severus's like poetry to Lupin, but Lupin himself was personified poetry. Fair and kind, ailed by the darkest of secrets, but full of warmth and comfort for others, even those who didn't deserve it. His knowing eyes, like clear lakes without bottoms, their surfaces showing every stirring, every movement in their depths. Severus could have found many more poetic words to describe him, so fascinated was he with the werewolf, so captivated was his mind. There was no way of letting go of him.Severus cleared away his ingredients and the cauldron and put out the fire. When he retired to his rooms, he lit a fire in the grate – in vain, though, since the fresh memory of the werewolf's warmth could not be compared to. He heaved a sigh and slumped down on his sofa. He would never be able to utter the words he formed in his mind, so he hoped that maybe one day Lupin would read them in his eyes. He was no poet. He couldn't even put his own feelings into words, was completely ignorant when it came to relationships. He couldn't find elegant expressions for his troubles and he didn't feel relieved after voicing them in any of his clumsy ways.But he did feel better when Lupin voiced them, when he found words for Severus's thoughts and feelings. Lupin's presence was somehow soothing. It seemed as if Lupin knew the exact words and behaviour that were needed in a specific situation. His whole presence was aesthetic, was healing, was pleasant. And Severus felt listened to and understood, as if the things he told Lupin were meaningful not only to himself but to the werewolf as well, as if he was respected, even cherished for who he was for the first time in his life.Lupin was indeed a worthy confidant, one of a very few whom Severus judged worthy to entrust him with the things that mattered to him. Lupin gave Severus the feeling that he was better than he believed, lightening the weight on his shoulders. And all he could offer in return were coldness and snide remarks.No, Severus was no poet. But Remus Lupin was poetry.

	Title: Fortune's Might
	Title: Fortune's Might
	Title:
	 Fortune's Might
	Pairing: SS/RL
	Pairing:
	Disclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.
	Disclaimer
	Author's Note: So here I go again, trying to speak with Severus's poetic voice ... I tried to take most of the sappy parts and transorm them into something more authentic than the original version.
	Author's Note
	
	Lesson Ten: Bel Esprit
	Lesson Ten: Bel Esprit
	Severus had hoped that his head would clear a little, once he had made the decision to stop pushing Lupin away. But he had been mistaken. His head was still buzzing. It wasn't as if he was still wondering if he had done the right thing, whether it had been right to give up the safety of isolation in favour of allowing a relationship to form – for he had admitted that that was the most accurate term to describe the connection between them. He did not doubt that it had been right to take a risk to receive from the werewolf what he had to give. Yet, Severus was troubled. He couldn't lay his finger on it, but something was still troubling him.
	Perhaps it was the mere fact that something about Lupin had changed. It wasn't so much his behaviour, though he did seem even kinder to Severus when they came across each other, it was predominantly in his smile. It was not the polite, customary smile that everybody received. It was new, special. As though it was only for Severus. And Severus, having stopped avoiding Lupin, now saw a lot of that smile. At meals, in corridors and hallways, in staircases and the staffroom, Lupin would always give Severus that smile, somewhat sweet, like the scent that always lingered in his wake. Severus was so intrigued, he even caught himself taking detours, just so he would meet Lupin and receive that smile. He wished that there was not only the possibility of bottling fame, but also of capturing that sweet smile in a phial, so he could look at it whenever he felt like it. And he felt like it rather often. Which made him nervous, because Lupin's influence was growing gradually. But he did his best to conceal it when he encountered the werewolf. Admittedly, if he knew Lupin at all, the werewolf would see it anyway.
	For five long days, Severus had not had any private meetings with Lupin. Severus blamed it on their workload, but he knew, deep within, that he simply couldn't ask Lupin to tea. He could not quite explain it, he wasn't usually a timid man. But over this matter he was constantly fussing. Lupin would have to take the next step, because Severus would not be able to overcome this invisible barrier that prevented him from approaching Lupin and asking for some private time together. Perhaps it was the mere possibility that Lupin might reject him. Or maybe Severus just didn't want to make Lupin think that he wanted to go out with him. It would be mortifying to see the look on Lupin's face when he found out that Severus was – he daren't even say it out loud – attracted to him. But it was undeniable. It was growing more evident by the day.
	It was most annoying that he yearned for Lupin's presence in the evening, after a day of teaching and brewing, when he would usually feel tired. More and more often, Severus found his mind wandering into most unusual and unwanted directions when thinking about Lupin. He missed his husky chuckle when the silence in his rooms pressed in on him, and the depths of his eyes when he could not look into any eyes but his students' blank and pitiably shallow ones. Severus found that Lupin's eyes looked quite like freshly brewed cauldrons of Felix Felicis, swirling when emotion stirred them, like a potion when the ladle touched it. They were warm and promising. Like liquid luck. Whenever Severus caught his thoughts straying into such embarrassing directions, he stopped them forcefully. But most of the time they would warm his body before he even realised it. And the wish to be alone with Lupin was growing. He couldn't stand not knowing when it would be possible again.
	The only times when Severus met Lupin were those casual every day occasions in the staffroom and the Great Hall. What surprised Severus was that the werewolf kept the required distance. Apart from a smile now and then, a greeting when no one was looking, he made no attempt to talk to him while they were in company. During meals he was seated at the other end of the table, anyway. In the staffroom he would normally sit with McGonagall or one of the other teachers he had grown very friendly with, and Severus found himself magnetically, almost jealously, drawn to the werewolf, sitting down opposite, though never next to him.
	Severus was already subconsciously hoping that there would be enough room to sit down close to Lupin again today when he ascended the stairs to the Entrance Hall to spend a free period in the staffroom. Up to now, Lupin's scent had not yet been strong enough to finally recognise it among the perfumes of the witches usually sitting with him, or, indeed, the smell of the potions and explosions from Severus's own classroom. At least sitting opposite him Severus could not hope to ever breathe it in deeply enough and it was a little mystery of its own, one that he thought he would only solve once he got so close that they would touch – not just a brushing of fingers like a week ago, but a real touch, no gap left between them.
	Shivering with the mere idea, Severus strode across the Entrance Hall and almost bumped into the object of his inappropriate desire. Lupin was just walking from the front doors towards the marble staircase, looking slightly windswept and rosy-cheeked. Severus stopped dead, suddenly nervous, his head light. They were alone, nobody was even close by. Lupin came to a halt as well and smiled his special smile at Severus, shaking his disheveled hair out of his eyes. He was rather close, so Severus took a deep breath to see if the sweet scent was in the air again, but as it seemed the wind had swept it away when whipping round Lupin's body outside. Today the werewolf smelled fresh, like cold air and autumn leaves.
	"Good day to you, Severus," said Lupin cheerfully, and Severus had the impression that he was inching closer rather surreptitiously, as though trying to see how far he could go without making Severus uncomfortable. He sensed, as usual, the exact distance he had to stop at. "Is it your free period too? I have been to Hogsmeade to buy something to drink – oh, no alcohol!" he added when Severus shot him a mockingly disapproving look. "Butterbeer." And he pulled a bottle from his pocket.
	"I see," said Severus and did not know how to continue. His throat felt dry. His head felt empty. He cursed himself for being incapable of talking to Lupin. The werewolf's amber eyes were in the way, so was his hair, falling nonchalantly into his eyes, and of course his smile, which reached his eyes and was for Severus only. They rendered Severus speechless. And that was quite some achievement. The crinkles round Lupin's eyes deepened.
	"Would you like to have some with me?" he asked, shaking the bottle. Severus answered without thinking.
	"Too sweet for my taste," he said and Lupin's face fell a little, covered up quickly by a chuckle.
	"That's fine," he said and shrugged, but Severus saw that it wasn't fine. "Were you heading for the staffroom? Can I come with you?"
	It surprised Severus that he was offered a second, much less obvious chance to agree to spend time together and seized it immediately, so as not to waste it carelessly again. "If you must," he said and wished he could have come up with something better than that, but Lupin seemed satisfied as he stowed the bottle away in his pocket. "Hogsmeade again, yes?" Severus asked, trying to make conversation.
	Lupin nodded and let his gaze wander over the walls and ceiling as they walked up the marble staircase together. "Yes, I like it there … memories I like to dwell on, shops I like to buy in," he replied, smiling at Severus, "now that I can afford it again. If only I didn't have to pass the Dementors to get there … but I've got enough chocolate on me to keep their effect at bay, and a loyal Patronus, too." He stopped there, did not take charge of the conversation like he usually would, and thus silence fell. Severus couldn't believe that it should be so hard to find a topic to talk about and blamed it on chatty Lupin because it seemed evident that he was keeping silent on purpose, trying to see if Severus really wanted to talk to him. Well, he could have that.
	"Is your Kappa still in good health?" asked Severus sarcastically and achieved the required effect: Lupin chuckled huskily, and as Severus glanced at him he found his face paling again to its usual ivory colour.
	"Oh, he's fine, but he'll have to leave my office for a while," he said hoarsely and sounded just a little regretful. "He's going to move into my rooms until further notice. I am expecting a new guest very soon. A Grindylow. But I still need my Kappa. And I have grown attached to him and my Redcap …"
	Severus snorted. "You talk about them as though they were pets," he said mockingly and Lupin shrugged.
	"Haven't given them names, though," he said almost defensively, "my father used to say: give them a name and you cannot let go of them anymore. So, I don't give them names. Still hard to let them go." He chuckled again, self-ironically this time.
	"They are not exactly cuddly, though, are they?" said Severus as they arrived at the staffroom, satisfied that he had managed to find a topic they could talk about easily. "You have to watch your back all the time."
	"Not as long as they aren't hungry," Lupin pointed out, opening the staffroom door and stepping aside to let Severus pass. "And I know my stuff. Keep them under control with a couple of simple spells. Nothing to worry about. It's one of my fields of expertise."
	"Of course," said Severus silkily, "how could I forget? That is, after all, the reason you are here."
	"Lucky me," said Lupin with a wink and strolled towards the table to sit down beside McGonagall, who was grading homework and seemed glad of the distraction. Only a few teachers were present, so Severus used the chance to sit down opposite Lupin, which the werewolf rewarded with another one of those smiles. But unfortunately, their conversation was over.
	While talking to McGonagall, Lupin glanced towards Severus more and more often, searching his eyes, but he didn't seem to dare talk to him. He seemed to respect something that Severus hadn't even voiced, but which obviously showed in his behaviour, or his eyes, or some other part of him that Lupin could read. He respected Severus's wish not to display their relationship to the staff, not to speak of the students. And Severus was grateful for it. He had feared that Lupin would demand friendly treatment and open conversations all the time, that he wouldn't understand that Severus couldn't provide that, not yet, maybe never. It was relieving that Lupin appeared to understand anything.
	Silence fell for a while as Lupin's eyes strayed out of the window and watched Hagrid throwing an enormous branch for Fang to fetch near the edge of the Forest. Severus looked at the werewolf. Actually he wanted Lupin to talk to him now. Ask him to tea perhaps, very subtly, so Severus could agree and pretend to hate the idea, so that nobody else would realise that he really wanted to see Lupin alone. Though Severus knew that he could not quite make the impression that he loathed Lupin anymore. He supposed his colleagues had come to the conclusion that he had grown tired of loathing Lupin and now accepted him like every other one of his more insufferable colleagues. But no one would even suspect that there was more, he was sure, they had known him for too long to read more into Severus's lack of hostility than he would allow.
	But that was also a reason to worry. Maybe Lupin, too, thought that he was merely an accepted colleague now and nothing more. Severus shouldn't have declined the Butterbeer. Why would Lupin ask him to tea if he thought that Severus wasn't interested? Severus wished he could make clear to him discreetly that it had really only been the Butterbeer he wasn't interested in. He wanted another meeting, wanted to be alone with Lupin again, but he didn't know how to ask for it without giving away just how much he wanted it. He did not want to expose himself to Lupin again. And apart from that, he was worried. In which way would their connection unfold? How could he steer it into the direction he wanted it to go into? And if it did, would he be able to handle it? Would he be up to it? He had never, after all, had such a relationship. It was troubling, indeed.
	Sighing in quiet exasperation, he rested his chin on his fist and scowled at Lupin. He wasn't used to this. Whatever this was. It cost him a lot of energy and patience – on which he was short anyway, most of the time. It had been … pleasant to talk to the werewolf, and Severus wished he could just step over the remainders of his fortress's walls to approach him again, but he had no resolution left to do it. Their encounter five days ago had worn him out. Lupin would have to take the next step and Severus felt sure that he would, sooner or later, if only to find out if he was allowed to. Even though it was taking him an extraordinary amount of time already. Severus was sure that he had not changed his mind about … about us, Severus thought, frowning, there is an us. And it was a good thing that Severus knew they would meet in private several times during the week before the full moon at the very last.
	this
	about us
	there is an us
	Suddenly Severus became aware of Lupin's eyes on him, twinkling rather Dumbledorishly. The werewolf's lips were curled into a small smile that looked as though it was stubbornly fighting suppression. Averting his eyes self-consciously, Severus cast around for something to say, nothing too rude but something that would help him cover up that he was unable to ask Lupin to tea himself. Coming up with nothing witty or snide – which was strange enough because he was usually full fit to burst with such remarks, having to keep them in by force – Severus grew nervous under Lupin's golden gaze, which made his skin tingle. He was quite grateful, therefore, when McGonagall decided that she had something more to say to the werewolf and thus distracted him from Severus.
	"Potter asked me to grant him permission to go to Hogsmeade on Hallowe'en, because his aunt and uncle didn't sign his form," she said sternly and Severus rolled his eyes. He would have been grateful for any other topic. Lupin showed far too much interest in the boy already.
	"And did you?" asked Lupin, causing Severus to raise an incredulous eyebrow at him.
	"Of course not!" said McGonagall firmly. "I'm not his guardian, therefore it would be inappropriate."
	Lupin nodded, seeming relieved. "It is better this way, I'm sure," he said softly, "considering the circumstances. Though I do feel sorry for him. I understand his family don't treat him very well. But leaving the grounds seems unwise for him as long as … Black is on the loose." Lupin hesitated slightly at Black's name and Severus thought it might be because he didn't want to mention Black in front of Severus.
	"I agree, he will have the chance to go to Hogsmeade next year, or as soon as it's safe again," said McGonagall and straightened her spectacles. "It would be far too dangerous to have him wandering about out of Dumbledore's protection. Though I don't believe that Black could sneak into Hogsmeade without anyone noticing."
	Lupin fidgeted and it attracted Severus's attention. It seemed guilty somehow. "I don't think that we should make the mistake to underestimate him, he did escape from Azkaban, after all," he said heavily.
	did
	"I wonder how he did it …" muttered McGonagall and Lupin fidgeted again.
	"Who knows …" said Lupin quietly and leant back in his chair with a heavy sigh.
	McGonagall smiled slightly, giving Lupin a sidelong glance. "Let's hope that Potter doesn't get into trouble again," she said and there was teasing in her voice. "He's so much like his father. And I believe we all remember what the four of you got up to at school. Only mischief on your minds and completely unconcerned about rules, not to mention safety."
	Lupin chuckled and it sounded uneasy. "You have no idea," he muttered, rubbing his neck. Severus noticed that he was avoiding her eyes. And Severus's.
	"Potter is exactly like his father, a rule-breaker and troublemaker," sneered Severus and the other two looked at him. "He thinks himself a great hero, that boy."
	exactly
	"Well, whatever you say, Severus, up to now Potter has always acted nobly to help others, and he always succeeds in his endeavours," said McGonagall and sounded a little too proud. She seemed to notice, for she hastened to add, "Not that I approve of his rule breaking."
	too
	"Oh, yes, if we hadn't got Potter to stop all the evil in the world we would all be lost," retorted Severus, his voice dripping with sarcasm. "Let's make a parade for him. Actually, I am surprised that such a thing has not been thought of yet. 'The Harry Potter Day Parade' …" McGonagall scowled at him and Lupin raised his eyebrows.
	"Harry is quite the hero, isn't he?" asked the werewolf thoughtfully. "Even I heard of the Basilisk and the encounter with Lord Voldemort in the depths of this school." He gave McGonagall a look as she flinched and his eyes flickered towards Severus, who glowered at him. "I am afraid that maybe one day he could run out of luck …"
	"Hopefully," muttered Severus and earned himself scandalised looks from both of them. "Maybe the thought of Death coming for him in the form a giant black dog will prevent him leaping headfirst into life-threatening danger this year. But after all, not even the Monster of Slytherin was enough to scare him …" Severus almost regretted that the beast hadn't eaten Potter.
	"He's brave," said Lupin, shrugging.
	"He's a Gryffindor," McGonagall agreed proudly.
	Severus rolled his eyes. He's stupid, was what he wanted to say but he didn't want to annoy Lupin. Actually, on second thought, he did. A nice flash of anger would suit him well right now. But Severus had already missed the moment, the two Gryffindors had started talking again.
	He's stupid
	"Has Harry seen a black dog at all?" Lupin asked and Severus couldn't believe that the werewolf was so superstitious.
	"Why, Lupin, you don't believe that a giant dog is following the boy around to bite his head off, do you?" he sneered and Lupin looked at him, his golden eyes worried.
	"Of course not," he replied but Severus didn't quite believe him and even less when Lupin flinched as Fang barked outside, rather closer to the window than before.
	"Potter hasn't talked to me about any such thing," said McGonagall, ignoring Severus altogether, "and I doubt if he would confide in me even if he had seen the Grim or any other ridiculous omen of death."
	Though Lupin nodded, he seemed more worried than ever. It was curious. Severus wanted to get to the bottom of it. But not here and now, that would be inappropriate. So they spent the rest of their free period talking about lighter topics and accepting shortbread from a tin that McGonagall held out to them. When they left the staffroom together to be on time for their lessons, Severus had the impression that Lupin brushed against him deliberately as they passed through the doorway at the same time. Their arms touched lightly, and Lupin was careful not to meet Severus's eyes, smiling silently to himself. Watching him walk away, Severus waited until he had disappeared round a corner before he set off, too.
	There were no exploding cauldrons, which made his afternoon classes much more pleasant than usual. Still he was looking forward to dinner, or rather to seeing Lupin again, rather more than was normal. But he was disappointed. When he entered the Great Hall, Lupin was not there and he did not arrive late, either. It was as though six cauldrons had exploded, after all. Severus chewed his lamb chops listlessly, wondering if Lupin was overworked and couldn't attend dinner because he had to grade homework. Cursing himself for not finding it in himself to simply visit him and ask for one of his teabags, Severus returned to his office. He didn't know what to say or do. He grew nervous whenever he thought about meeting Lupin in private, unprepared. He was worried that he'd end up revealing even more of himself to Lupin. And really, what if he said something harsh or rude again? He just couldn't control himself sometimes, it was only a matter of time. Lupin's patience surely wasn't endless. What if Severus said something utterly wrong? He would surely make a mess of things. And it would be Lupin who didn't want to associate with him anymore. Everything would have been in vain.
	Entering his laboratory, Severus loosened his cravat and opened the topmost buttons of his shirt, heaving a sigh. He was facing yet another silent evening in his rooms. It was annoying that he even cared. He had never minded silence before. Severus lifted a cauldron onto the worktable and lit a fire underneath it, setting to work. He noticed almost too late that he was about to slice wolfsbane instead of daisy root. Restraining himself from hurling the knife across the room, Severus put the wolfsbane away. When he was starting to slice the daisy root, there was a knock on the door that caused him to look up. Who dared to disturb him now? Usually nobody knocked on his laboratory door, only Albus. After all, they would have to enter his office unasked. Impertinent.
	"Who is it?" he called and started when he heard a hoarse voice answering.
	"It is I, Remus … may I come in?"
	There was that swooping sensation in Severus's stomach and he caught himself liking the fact that Lupin would give his first name as identification – it indicated familiarity. Hesitating for a few moments, Severus tried to scold himself for that ridiculous thought. When he was unsuccessful, he laid down his knife and took a deep breath. This was what he had been waiting for. Though he had not expected it to happen tonight. He cleared his throat.
	"Enter," he said a little too quietly, but Lupin seemed to have heard, for the door opened and the werewolf entered, smiling, obviously cheerful but tired.
	"Good evening, Severus," he said pleasantly, approaching Severus slowly, looking at the cauldron and ingredients. "You are brewing?"
	Looking down, Severus took up his knife again to continue slicing the daisy root, double-checking that it really was daisy root this time. "Obviously," he muttered, dropping the daisy root into the cauldron, producing a bubbling noise.
	"Hope I'm not disturbing you," said Lupin politely, but it was obvious what he wanted Severus to say.
	The same carelessness that had made him decline the Butterbeer, would almost have made Severus say "yes", as he caught himself almost dicing another wrong ingredient. But he bit his tongue, taking the right ingredient, and shook his head. He did not want Lupin to leave, after all. At least he thought he didn't. "I doubt that it will be entertaining to watch me brewing, though," he said and felt self-conscious again. Brewing never made him feel self-conscious. That man turned everything upside down. Severus dropped the diced gingerroot into the cauldron and watched the potion change its colour from light blue to red. Severus stirred it once clockwise and twice anticlockwise. Again it changed colour, simmering softly, this time to a pale pink. Severus nodded in satisfaction.
	"Oh, it is entertaining," Lupin said, and when Severus looked up at him in confusion, he added, "It's interesting to watch you. It is inspiring. You really are passionate about potions."
	is
	Thoughtfully, Severus poured leech juice into the potion, enjoying the pleasant smile on Lupin's face, and stirred again. The smoke rising from the cauldron between them furled round Lupin's face and obscured his golden eyes. Severus couldn't see him properly anymore and waved his hand through the air to clear his view. The melodious simmering of the potion was a nice accompaniment to the werewolf's hoarse voice. Nodding slowly, Severus said, "I am."
	"I was never much of a potion-brewer myself," remarked Lupin unnecessarily, for Severus remembered their Potions classes very well. "Was always pure torture to me. I was glad to drop it after fifth year. You, on the other hand, don't even need instructions, you even improve existing potions. Some would call you a genius," he added and paused with a smile that brought the swooping back to Severus's stomach.
	"Some might," he conceded truthfully and realised that he was thoroughly enjoying Lupin's praise.
	"I heard that you only take Outstanding students into your NEWT classes …" Lupin continued and his smile became amused, "making sure to get rid of those who don't deserve your attention?"
	Severus smirked slightly as he cut off the heads of some cockroaches, noticing that Lupin was edging closer to watch. "It is an art, brewing, and it is common knowledge that not everybody is an artist," he said silkily, and enjoyed the werewolf's husky chuckle as the cockroach heads fell into the potion. Severus wanted more of that chuckle. He needed a whole lot of it to store it away for bad times. Which would surely come. Were probably already on their way.
	"I don't have the gift, do I?" Lupin said in amusement, but Severus's smirk vanished.
	"What I said does not apply to you," he muttered, stirring the potion, "I don't have to waste my time teaching you, after all."
	"Just a joke, Severus," the werewolf said, leaning against the worktable so close to Severus that he was only an inch away from too close. He picked up a rattail thoughtfully, looking at it in silence. Severus remembered that Lupin had seemed appalled by the idea of rats in potions when he had first entered Severus's office. After a few moments, Severus took the rattail out of Lupin's hand to cut it and their fingers brushed, causing Severus to linger for a little longer than absolutely necessary. "Some of those ingredients I will never get used to," said Lupin and made a face when he heard the bone crack under Severus's knife.
	too
	Severus raised an eyebrow. He was used to the fact that few people understood the beauty of potion-making and the quality of the ingredients needed. But usually he would not bother explaining it to those who were ignorant. Now, though, he felt an inexplicable need to do so. Well, maybe not that inexplicable. So he thought of a metaphor that would make Lupin understand, and had a try.
	"The ingredients are colours and the order in which I add them to the potion is the composition of the picture that I shall paint with them. Though you might not appreciate each colour individually, maybe even despise it for its unpleasant shade, you will see that combined they add up to something far greater and more magnificent than the mere sum of its parts. This –" he said raising his ladle, "is my brush and I am the painter, naturally. And the finished potion –" he poured some of the potion into a glass that was standing beside the cauldron, showing it to Lupin, "is my work of art."
	The werewolf took the glass from him and his eyes twinkled when he held the potion up to the flickering torchlight, watching the potion change colour from green to blue and back again when he tilted the glass a little. "You must be proud of it."
	Severus watched him. He liked to see his work finished, perfect and beautiful, but he liked it even more to watch Lupin admiring it. "I invest great effort in it, I perfect recipes and instructions. Sometimes it is dirty and takes a lot of time and hard work, but when it is finished and the result satisfies me, then yes … I think I am proud."
	Lupin looked at him and smiled. Fondly, Severus thought for a moment before finding it too ridiculous. "Well, you are an excellent Potioneer, maybe even the best," said Lupin, handing Severus back the potion. Severus felt an oddly pleasant surge of pride at those words. As if it meant more when Lupin said it than when anyone else did. Although the werewolf wasn't even close to being an expert. To Severus it meant more than the many awards in his rooms. Looking down into the glass, he saw Lupin's reflection in the potion. How ridiculous, Severus.
	How ridiculous, Severus
	"Maybe I am," he said, rather more modest than he usually was. Noticing again how very close Lupin was standing to him, he felt the warmth radiating from him, and if he had moved his hand but a few inches to the left, it would have touched Lupin's. But Lupin displayed again his excellent feeling for personal space, remaining at the very border of Severus's. Severus turned and summoned a few phials from a cupboard to fill them with the potion, labeling them and laying them down neatly, side by side, on the table. Lupin was still watching him intently.
	Knowing somehow that the werewolf would be interested, would want to know, like no one else would, Severus felt the urge to tell him more, to tell him about the magnificence of potions that most people didn't recognise. He wanted to tell someone who would truly listen and understand that he did not do it for gold or any other kind of gain, but for reasons too obscure for the ordinary wizard to see. Lupin would see, he would comprehend. Potions were to Severus what Dark creatures were to Lupin. The pleasure of talking to Lupin became evident once more. And suddenly it wasn't difficult anymore – there was a wonderful ease to it that hadn't been there before.
	"You see," Severus said, letting his fingers ghost over the phials, "spells are useful, but most people can cast them more or less successfully. Potion-making is something that you must have a feeling for. You should recognise the beauty of the swirling fumes, rising in all colours and smells from the singing cauldron, promising love and hatred, sanity and madness, life and death with its bubbling voice. If you don't, you will never be much of a potion-brewer. You can keep to the instructions but there is a difference between the stoic mixing of ingredients to achieve a result that merely fulfils its purpose, and the creative and skilful fusing of ingredients, timing, and stirring to produce a potion that is not merely functional, but outstanding and extraordinary in effect. A certain amount of passion is essential," he paused and looked round at Lupin, who was smiling slightly, brows knitted in careful concentration.
	"It must be frustrating that most people don't share your enthusiasm," he said and picked up one of the phials, closing his fist around it. "Though your potion-making deserves some more appreciation, doesn't it? I suppose there is only one student in a hundred who can start to understand what you know."
	Severus swallowed and, indeed, he felt enthusiastic. "Only a very few understand," he said quietly, "that a potion is almighty. It can control your body and your mind. It can mean the difference between life and death, it can wash away sicknesses, wounds, and pain.
	"It can be liquid love, creating an illusion so perfect that you will never be able to tell lover from enemy.
	"It can reveal the darkest of truths no matter how deeply it is buried, how cleverly concealed behind the thickest of walls constructed of lies.
	"A potion can even tame the savage beast that lurks within you, waiting impatiently for the next opportunity to break loose. It can shackle the wolf to the very back of your mind, freeing you from the danger its sharp fangs pose, loosening the eternal hold it has on you," Severus concluded, his eyes meeting the werewolf's, whose expression had become quite unfathomable when Severus had mentioned the Wolfsbane Potion. Lupin's lips were slightly parted, and he was rolling the phial with potion between his deft fingers. For a few suffocating moments, Severus believed he had gone too far.
	There was a short silence until Lupin set down the phial beside the others, carefully and neatly. When he turned to Severus again, though, with a raised eyebrow and a vague smile, resting his hand on the worktable, he looked as if he had just received a valuable gift from Severus. "You are a poet, Severus," he said quietly, the firelight reflected in his golden eyes. "When you talk about potions, it sounds so effortless. I wonder why you cannot seem to captivate your students. Personally, I enjoy listening to you very much."
	Severus didn't know what to reply. Usually, nobody said so many nice things to him in one breath. Not that he cared. But when Lupin said such things, it seemed to matter. And Severus felt proud. Had he really said he enjoyed listening to Severus? Could it be true? Well, Lupin was rather peculiar … Maybe he was peculiar enough to actually mean what he said.
	"As I said, the beauty of potions is not visible to everybody. But there are some who can make it out when taught how to see it," he said
	"It is rather a beautiful potion, this one," Lupin said, nodding at the potion that was still changing colour in the torchlight. Severus raised an eyebrow.
	"If you believe it or not, this potion has a purpose other than delighting naïve Gryffindors, such as yourself," he replied coolly and took the freshly brewed potion to the shelves in his storage chamber. "As it happens, quite ironically, if you were to drink it, it would kill you instantly, so beware."
	Lupin chuckled and Severus was relieved despite himself that he had not offended the werewolf. That he was still granted the pleasure of his husky chuckle, and that he was bestowed with another smile that made Severus's head light. Lupin's light brown hair was shimmering in the torchlight, framing the mellow, pale skin of his too tired face. Severus noticed the faint scar on the werewolf's chin that reminded him of the beast that lived within, and it seemed suddenly utterly unreal to him that this kind and gentle man transformed into a savage wolf once a month.
	"Sometimes the most beautiful of things tend to kill us …" he muttered and Lupin gave him a curious look.
	"I'm glad I decided to visit you today," Lupin said quietly and slowly made for the door of the lab. At the door, he turned and gave Severus a knee-weakening smile. "Thank you for letting me watch. I'll see you tomorrow, then. Goodnight, Severus," he said warmly and left, closing the door behind him. Severus stared at the door and wished he'd been able to ask Lupin to stay for a cup of tea. Without him there, the dungeon was even colder and emptier than before. Much more silent, too.
	Maybe Severus's like poetry to Lupin, but Lupin himself was personified poetry. Fair and kind, ailed by the darkest of secrets, but full of warmth and comfort for others, even those who didn't deserve it. His knowing eyes, like clear lakes without bottoms, their surfaces showing every stirring, every movement in their depths. Severus could have found many more poetic words to describe him, so fascinated was he with the werewolf, so captivated was his mind. There was no way of letting go of him.
	Severus cleared away his ingredients and the cauldron and put out the fire. When he retired to his rooms, he lit a fire in the grate – in vain, though, since the fresh memory of the werewolf's warmth could not be compared to. He heaved a sigh and slumped down on his sofa. He would never be able to utter the words he formed in his mind, so he hoped that maybe one day Lupin would read them in his eyes. He was no poet. He couldn't even put his own feelings into words, was completely ignorant when it came to relationships. He couldn't find elegant expressions for his troubles and he didn't feel relieved after voicing them in any of his clumsy ways.
	But he did feel better when Lupin voiced them, when he found words for Severus's thoughts and feelings. Lupin's presence was somehow soothing. It seemed as if Lupin knew the exact words and behaviour that were needed in a specific situation. His whole presence was aesthetic, was healing, was pleasant. And Severus felt listened to and understood, as if the things he told Lupin were meaningful not only to himself but to the werewolf as well, as if he was respected, even cherished for who he was for the first time in his life.
	Lupin was indeed a worthy confidant, one of a very few whom Severus judged worthy to entrust him with the things that mattered to him. Lupin gave Severus the feeling that he was better than he believed, lightening the weight on his shoulders. And all he could offer in return were coldness and snide remarks.
	No, Severus was no poet. But Remus Lupin was poetry.
	
Title: Fortune's MightPairing: SS/RLDisclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.Author's Note: Sorry for the delay, I hope you're still following. The story progresses slowly, but never fear, the next to chapters will bring some progress. We're starting to get somewhere.Lesson Eleven: AmitySomething had changed, something that made Severus take an active part in this whole business with Lupin. It was not that Severus suddenly felt more confident, or surer that this relationship would unfold to his advantage. In fact, ever since Lupin's visit to his laboratory, he had not feel anything much but tempting curiosity. Whenever Severus saw the werewolf in conversation with another teacher, he felt sure that, whatever it was they were talking about, it was neither as stimulating nor as interesting to Lupin as whatever Severus had to say. Suddenly, Severus seemed to be the one who was closer to Lupin than anyone else, suddenly it wasn't him anymore who sat and watched something he did not understand or belong to. He was the one who understood, he was the one who could pull Lupin away from any conversation with a mere glance and make him talk to him instead. It was a gratifying feeling and he had spent most of the morning enjoying it. Sometimes he thought that Lupin noticed, which he probably did, but the werewolf made no remark and seemed to be pleased with Severus's attention. Not that Severus showed his attention overtly, but Lupin saw it.On the other hand, Lupin seemed to have decided that it was now Severus's turn to do something to contribute to their – whatever it was between them. Lupin appeared to be a tease on top of everything, he only communicated with looks, never did he try to say anything about it, though, and Severus thought he was tempting him on purpose. The trace of Lupin's sweet scent that was left in the air wherever he lingered for a few moments was very alluring, too. And Severus caught himself wondering if there was a plan behind that as well. Whether or not Lupin was indeed twisting him around his finger again was unimportant, for the plan, if there was one, definitely worked. This was just as effective as Lupin's stubborn resolution and unwavering calm had been in his first weeks as a teacher at Hogwarts.Today, Severus had decided, he was going to pay him a visit. It had taken him some time to reach that decision, walking back and forth in his rooms. But in the end, it had been clear to him that this was what he had to do, what he wanted to do. Severus was growing increasingly impatient. It was lunchtime now, and Severus was on his way to Hogsmeade, while everybody else was in the Great Hall. He had no desire to be seen doing what he was about to do and be forced to answer uncomfortable questions. It was uncomfortable enough to pass the Dementors, which he did at a slight run, shutting out their influence as he hurried downhill and along the path that led to the village. Though the streets were rather less frequented than they would have been at the weekend, Severus attracted many eyes as he walked along the High Street. He tried to appear as though he was there for no particular reason, simply happening to be ambling through the village. Not that anybody would believe it if he told them what he was here for.Stopping outside Hogsmeade's best tea shop, Severus looked left and right to make sure nobody had followed him – an old habit – and entered. Passing by the aisle with black teas because he was sure that Lupin would not like those, Severus turned into an aisle with milder brands and stopped in front of a large shelf, looking up and down, reading the labels on the countless little drawers, undecided which brand he should buy. Severus would always buy some fancy tea for Albus because the more colourful and unusual it was, the more excited the Headmaster would be to drink it. But Lupin seemed like he was a little more serious about tea at least. And Severus did not want him to interpret anything into the tea … don't be ridiculous, Snape! "Ah, Professor Snape!" said a croaking voice behind him and he turned to find Mr Leaf, the shop keeper, a little old man with grizzly grey hair, tiny eyes, and a monocle, standing beside him with a wide smile, rubbing his hands as if he expected Severus to spend a fortune on tea today. "I haven't seen you in a while. Can I help you in any way?"Severus turned to the shelf again and crossed his arms over his chest. "Yes," he said slowly, deciding that he would never be able to choose the best one among the many brands."Not your usual tea, then? Do you wish to try something new?" the shop keeper asked and stepped closer to the shelf, peering up at Severus."It is a …" Severus hesitated before continuing, "a gift. I am going to visit someone and I don't want to arrive empty-handed." He pulled out a little drawer and looked at it but put it back again. Mr Leaf nodded thoughtfully."Well, then, do you know your friend's preferences?" he asked and Severus scowled at him at the word "friend". Lupin's preferences? If he knew those it would make everything easier, not only the choice of tea."Well, we have not been … friends … for very long, so I can only guess at his preferences," he said, remembering the taste of the teabags and the werewolf's longing for sugar. "He likes his tea sweet and mild, I think." Severus thought about Lupin's cup always being half full when his own was already empty and he was about to leave. But maybe that was just so he did not need to buy new tea too soon. "Gold doesn't play a role, I want good quality, something special," he added, thinking of the dusty tin of teabags."I see, I have just the thing …" said Mr Leaf and with a swish of his wand he opened a drawer at the top of the shelf and it soared into Severus's hands. "White tea, the mildest of teas with a light and sweet flavour. Of the finest quality of course! And certainly the right tea to bring as a special gift."Severus looked into the drawer at the whitish leaves and found it a perfect choice. "I'll take it," he said, "and some Darjeeling for myself."Mr Leaf grinned happily, rubbing his hands once again (the man could really try and hide his greed for profit), waving his wand to summon the Darjeeling and make the drawers hover after him into the backroom. "Just a moment, please," he called and Severus made his way to the counter at the entrance. When the old man came back with two golden tins, putting them in a bag and taking the gold from Severus, he told him that he had put a card with instructions for the tea's preparation into each tin, wishing him "a nice day, Professor" when Severus exited the shop.Severus glanced into the bag. The first step had been taken, now he only had to walk up the stairs to Lupin's office in the evening, knock on his door, and give him the tea. That would start a conversation, no doubt. No reason to get nervous about it. It was just a normal meeting for a cup of tea. One like those he'd had with Albus a million times before. Only that this time he was bringing a gift, and the person he was going to have tea with wasn't his old, white-bearded, eye-twinkling, annoying boss. It was Remus Lupin, handsome and tempting. And many other things. Admittedly, Lupin, too, had twinkling eyes. But they were golden and their gaze was easier to bear. In fact it was desirable. And just when Severus thought that Lupin would see through him and interpret Merlin knew what into that tea, he remembered the twitching smile and the penetrating look and the vulnerable feeling they both incited in him.Lost in thought, trying to chase away the light feeling in his stomach, he ran straight into Minerva McGonagall, almost knocking her over. "Severus!" she cried, straightening her hat. He slipped the tea into his robes and nodded at her with a look that he knew she would recognise as apologetic. "What are you doing here?""Shopping ingredients," he said curtly. And cursed her for not attending lunch with everybody else. He could have sworn that he had seen her enter the Great Hall."Ah, I see," she muttered, sizing him up. "Well, then I'll see you in the castle." She turned and walked away into the direction of Honeydukes.While Severus was walking back up the street towards the castle, lost in thought, he passed the Dementors again, which were standing guard either side of the wrought-iron gates which led into the grounds. He hated passing them. It was pure torture. He felt dreadful every time he got too close to them, even more dreadful than he usually felt. Full of guilt, disappointment, bitterness, fear, and despair, he had to force himself to keep going, step by step. What was it really worth, this miserable, lonely life of his? Just keep putting one foot in front of the other, Snape, he thought, squinting up at the castle, as the sunlight that was reflected by Lupin's window up in one of the towers blinded him momentarily.When he finally left the Dementors' coldness behind, staring up at that window, he was almost sure that he had seen the gleam of Lupin's golden eyes behind the glass. And indeed, a moment later the werewolf threw open the window and leaned forward on the windowsill, holding his face into the fresh air. Severus quickened his step but Lupin caught sight of him before he could reach the front doors. Lupin waved at him, once, nonchalantly, and Severus embarrassed himself by stumbling up the stone steps because his eyes were fixed on the werewolf's brown hair, gleaming in the sunlight. He did not return the wave.Severus was so preoccupied that he didn't pay much attention to the Gryffindor and Hufflepuff fifth-years in their double-Potions class that afternoon which was probably the reason why one of their cauldrons melted, burning a black hole into one of the tables in the third row. Severus took twenty points from Gryffindor quite gleefully and was in rather a good mood when he ascended to dinner. He was hoping for a quick word with Lupin to ask him if he could spare some time that evening but the werewolf was not at dinner – his absences seemed to be becoming a bad habit and Severus wondered if Lupin had difficulty handling his workload. But on the other hand, he thought he might just have backed out again if he had met Lupin, and he would like to see the look of – hopefully pleasant – surprise on Lupin's face when he simply appeared on his doorstep unannounced.After dinner, Severus made his way upstairs to Lupin's office, clutching the round tin full of tea in his pocket. He felt his neck growing warmer with every step and cursed himself for being such a fool, fussing like that. But he could not help wondering how Lupin would react, if he would accept the tea, proud as he was. He might think that it was pity. Ah, but he knew Severus too well to think that he had pity for anyone. Once Severus had reached the office, he looked around to make sure the corridor was deserted and knocked three times as usual. Feeling his heart stopping with silly nervousness, he held his breath in unfounded apprehension."Come in, Severus," called Lupin from inside and Severus was taken aback for a moment. Had Lupin been expecting him or could he see through doors?Severus opened the door to the sight of the werewolf carrying a few boxes in his arms, smiling brightly, a faint flush on his cheeks. Severus stepped over the threshold, closing the door, and scowled at the werewolf. The Kappa had gone from its corner. "How did you know it was me?" asked Severus suspiciously.Lupin raised his eyebrows at him and put down the boxes on one of the shelves that were lining the walls. "I heard you walk along the corridor," he said as though it was the most obvious thing in the world. "Or rather, I heard you stride. A very loud way of walking, striding. And you have a very particular way of striding, I recognise you by the frequency and the vigour of your steps. There's a determination in your stride and there's a stride in your walk, even when you slow your step. Do you know what I mean? Surely there are people you recognise by merely hearing them walk? If you want to come here undetected you must creep, not stride."Lupin paused and considered Severus with an absent smile. Severus thought that somehow Lupin had said something very intimate. He did not quite know why, but what Lupin had said about recognising him by his stride gave Severus the feeling that they were close. Closer than just a minute ago. He looked into Lupin's amber eyes and wondered if he would recognise Lupin by his walk without knowing it was him."Kind of you to visit me," said Lupin after a few moments. "I've missed dinner again, haven't I? So much work to get done ... I really need to get used to having a full timetable." He laughed softly.Severus hesitated for a moment, still caught in that slightly embarrassing feeling of familiarity that had washed over him just a moment ago. Then he cleared his throat and pulled the tea out of his pocket. Lupin's amber eyes wandered slowly to the tin in Severus's hand and his eyebrows elevated as the corners of his mouth twitched. After another moment of hesitation, Severus held out the tin to Lupin, whose hand positively sprang into the air to take it as though he had only waited for a sign to tell him that it was indeed for him."I thought you might have use for this," said Severus and felt foolish despite everything as Lupin's smile widened in apparent delight. It suited him well."Thank you so much, Severus, that wouldn't have been necessary," said the werewolf happily, turning the tin in his hands, and he took off the lid to sniff the contents."I know," Severus said and bit his tongue. But Lupin just chuckled, obviously recognising the true meaning of those words."From Leaf's Leaves?" asked Lupin, taking the card out of the tin. Severus nodded and smirked inwardly as Lupin's eyes grew rather round. "But, Severus, that must have cost you a fortune. You shouldn't have –"But Severus waved his hand as though to wipe the matter away. "Not at all," he said stiffly. "Though it would be only decent of you to invite me to a cup now, to test the quality. Of course I know that decency isn't exactly a Gryffindor strength ...""Let's try it, then, shall we?" said Lupin pleasantly, smiling warmly at Severus as he opened the door to his rooms. Severus's stomach gave a pleasant jolt as he was invited into Lupin's private space. It was intimate somehow.Lupin indicated the sofa to Severus, which seemed to be what he thought was respectful, as his only private possession among the furniture, the armchair, was rather shabby. So Severus sat down, crossing his legs, and glanced around. The walls were still naked but for the Gryffindor flag and the books and the only other possession of importance was still the Lunascope. And perhaps one had to count the cage of the Redcap and its little inmate, which appeared to be asleep, and the Kappa in its tank, which was equally lazy. Lupin seemed to be spending most of his time in his office. Severus had a feeling that Lupin did not want to make himself too much at home. The werewolf produced two cups and a kettle out of thin air and took the card with instructions to read it carefully."I have never had the privilege to drink white tea," he said cheerfully and tapped the kettle with his wand, making it whistle. "Never any gold to spare …" He smiled as he ladled tea into the pot with a spoon. Severus felt both uncomfortable and pleased. It was good that Lupin was grateful and satisfied, but Severus thought he had also made him feel – inadvertently so – that he was poor and Severus was rich. He had not meant to humiliate Lupin. Not today. He had meant to give him something to enjoy. Not to make the distance between them seem greater.Handing Severus a steaming cup, Lupin sat down opposite him in the threadbare armchair. Severus found that Lupin had put a piece of chocolate on each on their saucers, probably because of the Dementors, but he didn't touch it for now. They took a sip of tea at the same time and Severus stole a surreptitious glance at Lupin over the rim of his cup, tasting the mild tea, maybe a little too mild for his taste but apparently just right for Lupin, judging by the closed eyes and the smile on his lips that told of enjoyment. Lupin leant back in his armchair, a relaxed expression on his face, his cheeks still slightly flushed, and heaved a hoarse sigh, sending a pleasant shiver through Severus's body."I have never drunk such good tea before," he said and rolled the cup between his hands as he gave Severus a look of too pronounced gratitude."It is worth it's gold," Severus concurred and averted his eyes, maybe a little too late to conceal that he had been watching Lupin. "I am … pleased that you enjoy it."Lupin looked at him with a slight frown and Severus wondered if he had said something wrong. "I do," the werewolf said softly, and when Severus met his intense gaze, he thought that there lingered a deeper meaning in those two words. Lupin's eyes never left his when he took another sip of his tea. "You passed the Dementors, didn't you?" he asked then, quietly, and Severus let his eyes drift out of the window to the wrought-iron gates where the rotten creatures lurked."Yes," he replied curtly."I am just relieved that the Headmaster won't let them into the grounds," muttered the werewolf, still looking at Severus – and Severus wished he wouldn't, "I can barely stand their presence. What about you, Severus?"Severus didn't want to answer but his mouth spoke of its own accord. "Yes, indeed," he said coolly but he regained control over his voice before it could utter anything too intimate, "every time I pass them I feel nothing but despair. The cruel certainty that I shall never find a reason good enough to get Potter expelled clings to me stubbornly. The thought of having to bear him for five more years makes my skin crawl."Lupin gave him a half-heartedly scolding look. "I'm sure that Harry could say the same about you, my dear Severus," he said and Severus would almost have choked on his tea at the words "my dear". "And as far as I've heard, he's got good reason.""Many people do," Severus replied indifferently and Lupin raised his eyebrows."And you don't care?" he asked and Severus sneered at him."No," said Severus simply. Of course Lupin would not understand. He liked to be liked, he liked others easily, and it was easy to like him."Personally, I like to be liked," said Lupin, indeed as though he had looked into Severus's mind. "You see, when people like me for who I am it tells me that I am not as bad as they would expect me to be if they knew what I am," said Lupin frankly. "It is proof that there really is no reason to hate me just because I am … a werewolf. And that is a good feeling. But you don't care if people like you at all?"Severus shook his head and Lupin cocked his head to one side, his golden eyes looking through Severus like only they could. No, Severus did not care. Not about the students, anyway. He found that being feared and respected was a good thing. If the price was hatred, what of it? As long as Lupin didn't hate him … but he could not tell Lupin that. He wouldn't tell him that he was glad of his presence here, that he didn't resent him anymore.Suddenly another smile spread over Lupin's face and he turned away with a knowing look, keeping to himself whatever he had seen in Severus's eyes. Taking a sip of his tea, Severus let the sweet taste roll slowly over his tongue and watched Lupin take a sip of his own. He feared that the werewolf had seen too much again, had perhaps glimpsed what Severus hadn't wanted to show him. But it was too late to worry now, he would have to be more careful about eye contact in future."That bad?" said Lupin in a very hoarse voice and cleared his throat, achieving only little improvement. "When you pass the Dementors, I mean. Is it so bad that you need to distract me with sarcasm?"Severus stared at him for a moment. He really didn't need to say anything, it seemed, and he wondered why he even wasted his breath if Lupin could just look at him and read whatever Severus had to say in his eyes or wherever else it was written. Occlumency was no use. Lupin saw Severus's thoughts, no matter how tightly closed Severus's mind was. Severus didn't answer but took another sip of tea, looking at his shoes."Another thing we have in common, it seems," muttered the werewolf and got up, strolling to the window to look out over the grounds. "I suppose we are very close to understanding why Harry faints when they draw near. It is cruel to laugh at him." Lupin's right hand moved to his left side, unconsciously it seemed, and his fingers dug into the fabric of his robes where they covered his waist. Severus narrowed his eyes. Maybe Lupin would never show him the scar left by the werewolf bite that had changed his life, but now Severus knew where to find it. Draining his cup and setting it down on the table, Severus got up and walked across the room to stand behind Lupin at an appropriate distance, glancing over his shoulder at the gates. The sweet smell that surrounded Lupin teased him with its faintness and appeared to be luring him closer. But he would not narrow the distance."Do you remember the night when you were bitten?" asked Severus and knew it was tactless. But he wasn't exactly famous for his tact anyway.Lupin turned his head slightly. "When the Dementors are near me, I do. All of it," he almost whispered, and his face was suddenly paler even than usual. "The shock, the pain, the feeling of almost dying. And then I wish I had died. And I remember another night, watching their dead bodies being carried out of the ruined house, being told that Sirius was a traitor. And then I feel dreadfully alone." He stopped, passing a hand over his face.Severus looked away. Who was he to think that he was the only one suffering? Lupin had experienced pain that Severus did not know. And part of that pain had been caused by Severus's mistakes. There was a painfully constricting feeling in his throat now. A silence stretched between them that was so thick with unsaid words that it hurt Severus's ears and made them buzz. He wanted to break it, needed to break it. But what he wanted to say seemed unspeakable. He had never talked about it to anyone, not even Dumbledore. And yet, the werewolf's presence loosened his tongue and enabled him to utter what was too painful to even be thought about."The guilt I feel when they are close is almost unbearable," he said, and was aware of Lupin's attention at once. "Though they are old deeds, very old deeds, the things I did when I was … a Death Eater … at the Dark Lord's service … so many cruel acts, so many deaths … they come to me as clearly as though they had been done recently. And I feel … unworthy of treading the same ground as the rest of you." He faltered and could say no more. He couldn't tell the werewolf the whole truth after all, feared the consequences.Lupin took the last sip from his cup and set it down on the windowsill, turning round to face Severus. He looked neither angry nor disgusted. He looked as though Severus's pain had been transferred to him. "I understand, Severus … you needn't say anything more," he said quietly and looked like a man who had seen and felt too much. "Everybody makes mistakes and they may haunt us forever if we don't forgive ourselves. What you did might be unforgivable. Yet, I choose to forgive you. But only forgiving yourself will really give you peace."Severus could hardly believe his ears. He knew he could not forgive himself. He could not forgive anyone anything and he was just as hard on himself. How could Lupin just do it as easily as though it was about breaking his favourite cup? Severus did not deserve it. However, he disagreed with Lupin on only finding peace in forgiving oneself. Lupin's forgiveness had given him some peace, and the feeling that he did not deserve it made him uncomfortable. He wished he had not said anything at all, had just let the silence stretch."The mistakes I made in the past have created this rift between us that will probably last forever," said Lupin even more quietly, his amber eyes searching Severus's face. Severus was thankful for the change of topic and knew that Lupin had realised that Severus did not wish to speak about his own mistakes anymore. Lupin was very considerate. A pleasant character trait that Severus did not find in himself or anybody else he knew. He liked it. He appreciated the way Lupin knew things."Maybe not forever," said Severus in what he hoped was an offhand voice.Lupin's smile was very warm indeed. He stepped past Severus, pulling his sweet scent with him teasingly, and sat down on his armchair again, patting the sofa to make Severus follow suit. Severus complied without comment and they looked at each other in silence for a while. Severus saw that Lupin had something on his mind and was trying to decide whether or not it was wise to say it. It took him a while but then he said, "After the full moon you said – I didn't quite understand. You did not want me here, after all. I thought it was because you are frightened of what I am – because of what almost happened in the Shrieking Shack when we were children."Severus did not answer at first. Did he fear Lupin? He considered the werewolf and told himself "no" at once. There was nothing about Lupin that was anywhere near frightening. He did fear the wolf, yes, after having encountered it almost eighteen years ago, it was only natural not to foster a wish of seeing it again. But he had taken care of that part of Lupin, too, it was no longer dangerous. And Lupin, the man, Severus did not fear in the slightest, quite the contrary. He thought that, right now, he was enjoying his company extraordinarily much. Trust, however, was something completely other."Mistrust and fear are not the same," he said slowly. "The danger of a werewolf poses cannot be denied, however, that does not mean that the human who suffers from lycanthropy should be feared or mistrusted. Most people don't realise that being a werewolf doesn't make one a dangerous or untrustworthy person. The reason why I did not want you here had nothing to do with your condition."Lupin's eyes were wide and incredulous when Severus looked into them. Severus couldn't help feeling uncomfortable. He took a deep breath, inhaling Lupin's faint sweet fragrance and looked into his amber eyes. Few times in his life had he looked at somebody who captivated him so, who was not only becoming in appearance but also gave him a pleasant feeling, whose company he didn't want to leave as soon as he could – on the contrary he wanted to prolong it. Lupin's attractiveness was not merely in his looks – it was much more than that, it was Lupin's voice, his personality, it was what lay hidden inside him, the kindness, the resolution, the calm, and the challenge they all posed. Severus's eyes found the little scar on Lupin's jaw and wandered to the werewolf's elegant hands, folded in his lap. He had not wanted him at Hogwarts. But now that he was there, Severus was glad of it."I've already told you that I don't think of you as a Dark creature," said Severus, when Lupin seemed unable, for once, to express what he was feeling. "You are the host of a parasitic Dark creature, that is all. You deserve all the chances that I get and only use reluctantly and ungratefully most of the time. They should be yours, not mine." Severus meant every word, surprised by his own sincerity. Now he could give the werewolf something in return for his kindness. Lupin's eyes never left his. He was sitting on the very edge of his armchair, his knees almost touching Severus's, his posture somewhat stiff, as if expectant."Why … why are you telling me this?" asked Lupin hoarsely and Severus had his answer ready."I thought that it was necessary you heard it," he said firmly and looked straight into Lupin's eyes. "I thought that somebody ought to tell you."Lupin looked overcome with emotion then, and Severus was just wondering if it was indecent to watch the werewolf with this much greedy curiosity while he was so obviously moved and if Lupin would prefer him to avert his eyes, when something startling, something incredible happened, and his heart skipped a beat. For a split second, Severus thought that Lupin had come closer, had leant in to –But no … that must have been his imagination. Wishful thinking maybe. Though he had not known until now that this was actually his wish. It could not have happened. Why would Lupin – but the werewolf lowered his eyes as he sat up a little straighter, rubbing his neck with a grin and a furrowed brow, blushing slightly as he shook his head as though scolding himself for wanting to do something inappropriate or foolish. Could it be? Had Lupin wanted to do it, but thought better of it? Maybe because he expected rejection? Severus had never seen Lupin blush like this before, anyway. The thought made his heart pound faster. He had never really thought about anything like that, despite the feelings for Lupin that he couldn't deny. He would never have thought that Lupin would want it. But now that he was under the impression that it had almost happened, the wish was strong and clear in him, as though it had always been there. And he failed to feel ashamed or embarrassed. Being close to Lupin, wanting to be close to him, felt oddly right. He had not felt like that in a very long time. Maybe never quite like this.The werewolf's hand fidgeted a little as though he would like to reach for Severus's but did not dare. He was still so close, almost, but not quite, touching Severus. Severus wanted Lupin to touch him. Wanted to feel his warm skin. He could not say or do it himself, though, so he waited for the werewolf to read it in his eyes, displaying the message in them as clearly as he could. But the golden eyes were directed at the floor, afraid, possibly, that Severus might have noticed his movement and realised what he would almost have done. And the moment was over."Thank you for saying that, Severus," said Lupin to the floor and though his grin was still in place, Severus saw a single tear escaping through his eyelashes, dripping onto his knee. Lupin wiped his eyes with the back of his hand and did not give away that he was even aware of his short weakness when he looked at Severus, smiling normally again, though warmly, extremely warmly. "You have no idea what that means to me."Severus did have an idea. And he knew why Lupin had been overcome with emotion, unable, for a moment, to keep his cheerful mask in place. "Odd somehow …" said Severus and Lupin gave him an inquisitive look. "You said that our extraordinarily difficult lives have made us who we are. Of you it made an amiable teacher, liked by all … of me, though, well, you said it yourself, many have reason to dislike me.""Amiable?" laughed Lupin. "Well, thank you very much. But I think compared to you even Minerva would pass as amiable."Yes, Severus thought, the moment was definitely over. As though it had never happened at all. And it annoyed him. His face darkened before he could prevent it. As if Lupin would ever want to – as if anyone would …"I'm sorry, Severus," said Lupin, frowning, "I did not mean to offend you."Severus shook his head with a sneer. "You are right," he said simply, "nobody would call me amiable. I don't mind."Lupin smiled a little and picked up the tin of tea, looking at it as he turned it between his fingers. His reflection was distorted by its round, golden surface. He sighed. "By the way," he said, looking at Severus with that warm smile, "I said that I like to be liked, but your liking is most valuable to me."At first, Severus was too surprised and embarrassed to reply, then he cleared his throat and tried to cover it up by putting on a mock haughty look and applying a mock serious tone. "It should be," he said silkily, trying not to appear too flattered, "as it is very rare, and hard-earned."The werewolf chuckled huskily and Severus wished he would never stop. Lupin liked to be liked by Severus. And it was most satisfying that Severus's liking was most important to him. For now it didn't even matter that Lupin knew that Severus harboured a liking for him, even though it was probably better kept a secret. Lupin's liking was most valuable to Severus, too, after all, and did feel like proof that Severus was better than he believed, that there was something about him that deserved Lupin's liking.The fireplace was empty, yet it was warm beside Lupin. Pleasant. All of this was pleasant. Severus looked at their knees, not even an inch apart. He wondered if he should move his leg just a little to the left as if accidentally, like he had done with his hand the other day. He would feel the werewolf's warmth stream into his body again. Should he dare?But he had no time to make up his mind because Lupin did so first. Severus wasn't sure if it had been intentional but he was glad it had happened. It was a short contact but unrivaled as of now in its intimacy. The effect was enormous. Heat shot through Severus's body, and at the same time he could barely suppress a shiver. Before Severus could indulge in it, however, Lupin moved his leg again, breaking contact, and reached for his wand on the table. The heat vanished from Severus's body at once, leaving his heart pounding embarrassingly loudly in his chest."Another cup of tea?" asked Lupin pleasantly, turning towards Severus with one of his sweet smiles. "It would give you an excuse to stay a little longer, so I won't get the idea that you enjoy my company."Severus snorted, raising an eyebrow at Lupin, but he was too breathless now for a witty retort. "Why not," he said simply and when he finally popped into his mouth the chocolate Lupin had put on his saucer, he congratulated himself on the idea of giving Lupin tea.When the sun set after felt hours of pleasant silence and occasional snippets of just as pleasant conversation, Severus bade Lupin farewell, being thanked again "for everything", whatever that meant, before he was allowed to leave and make his way to the dungeons through the dark, deserted corridors. The white tea was still on his tongue as he passed window after moonlit window, wondering how it might have been, how sweet it would have tasted if Lupin had … if they had kissed.

	Title: Fortune's Might
	Title: Fortune's Might
	Title:
	 Fortune's Might
	Pairing: SS/RL
	Pairing:
	Disclaimer: Harry Potter and his world belong to JKR.
	Disclaimer
	Author's Note: Sorry for the delay, I hope you're still following. The story progresses slowly, but never fear, the next to chapters will bring some progress. We're starting to get somewhere.
	Author's Note
	
	Lesson Eleven: Amity
	Lesson Eleven: Amity
	Something had changed, something that made Severus take an active part in this whole business with Lupin. It was not that Severus suddenly felt more confident, or surer that this relationship would unfold to his advantage. In fact, ever since Lupin's visit to his laboratory, he had not feel anything much but tempting curiosity. Whenever Severus saw the werewolf in conversation with another teacher, he felt sure that, whatever it was they were talking about, it was neither as stimulating nor as interesting to Lupin as whatever Severus had to say. Suddenly, Severus seemed to be the one who was closer to Lupin than anyone else, suddenly it wasn't him anymore who sat and watched something he did not understand or belong to. He was the one who understood, he was the one who could pull Lupin away from any conversation with a mere glance and make him talk to him instead. It was a gratifying feeling and he had spent most of the morning enjoying it. Sometimes he thought that Lupin noticed, which he probably did, but the werewolf made no remark and seemed to be pleased with Severus's attention. Not that Severus showed his attention overtly, but Lupin saw it.
	On the other hand, Lupin seemed to have decided that it was now Severus's turn to do something to contribute to their – whatever it was between them. Lupin appeared to be a tease on top of everything, he only communicated with looks, never did he try to say anything about it, though, and Severus thought he was tempting him on purpose. The trace of Lupin's sweet scent that was left in the air wherever he lingered for a few moments was very alluring, too. And Severus caught himself wondering if there was a plan behind that as well. Whether or not Lupin was indeed twisting him around his finger again was unimportant, for the plan, if there was one, definitely worked. This was just as effective as Lupin's stubborn resolution and unwavering calm had been in his first weeks as a teacher at Hogwarts.
	Today, Severus had decided, he was going to pay him a visit. It had taken him some time to reach that decision, walking back and forth in his rooms. But in the end, it had been clear to him that this was what he had to do, what he wanted to do. Severus was growing increasingly impatient. It was lunchtime now, and Severus was on his way to Hogsmeade, while everybody else was in the Great Hall. He had no desire to be seen doing what he was about to do and be forced to answer uncomfortable questions. It was uncomfortable enough to pass the Dementors, which he did at a slight run, shutting out their influence as he hurried downhill and along the path that led to the village. Though the streets were rather less frequented than they would have been at the weekend, Severus attracted many eyes as he walked along the High Street. He tried to appear as though he was there for no particular reason, simply happening to be ambling through the village. Not that anybody would believe it if he told them what he was here for.
	Stopping outside Hogsmeade's best tea shop, Severus looked left and right to make sure nobody had followed him – an old habit – and entered. Passing by the aisle with black teas because he was sure that Lupin would not like those, Severus turned into an aisle with milder brands and stopped in front of a large shelf, looking up and down, reading the labels on the countless little drawers, undecided which brand he should buy. Severus would always buy some fancy tea for Albus because the more colourful and unusual it was, the more excited the Headmaster would be to drink it. But Lupin seemed like he was a little more serious about tea at least. And Severus did not want him to interpret anything into the tea … don't be ridiculous, Snape! 
	don't be ridiculous, Snape! 
	"Ah, Professor Snape!" said a croaking voice behind him and he turned to find Mr Leaf, the shop keeper, a little old man with grizzly grey hair, tiny eyes, and a monocle, standing beside him with a wide smile, rubbing his hands as if he expected Severus to spend a fortune on tea today. "I haven't seen you in a while. Can I help you in any way?"
	Severus turned to the shelf again and crossed his arms over his chest. "Yes," he said slowly, deciding that he would never be able to choose the best one among the many brands.
	"Not your usual tea, then? Do you wish to try something new?" the shop keeper asked and stepped closer to the shelf, peering up at Severus.
	"It is a …" Severus hesitated before continuing, "a gift. I am going to visit someone and I don't want to arrive empty-handed." He pulled out a little drawer and looked at it but put it back again. Mr Leaf nodded thoughtfully.
	"Well, then, do you know your friend's preferences?" he asked and Severus scowled at him at the word "friend". Lupin's preferences? If he knew those it would make everything easier, not only the choice of tea.
	"Well, we have not been … friends … for very long, so I can only guess at his preferences," he said, remembering the taste of the teabags and the werewolf's longing for sugar. "He likes his tea sweet and mild, I think." Severus thought about Lupin's cup always being half full when his own was already empty and he was about to leave. But maybe that was just so he did not need to buy new tea too soon. "Gold doesn't play a role, I want good quality, something special," he added, thinking of the dusty tin of teabags.
	friends
	"I see, I have just the thing …" said Mr Leaf and with a swish of his wand he opened a drawer at the top of the shelf and it soared into Severus's hands. "White tea, the mildest of teas with a light and sweet flavour. Of the finest quality of course! And certainly the right tea to bring as a special gift."
	Severus looked into the drawer at the whitish leaves and found it a perfect choice. "I'll take it," he said, "and some Darjeeling for myself."
	Mr Leaf grinned happily, rubbing his hands once again (the man could really try and hide his greed for profit), waving his wand to summon the Darjeeling and make the drawers hover after him into the backroom. "Just a moment, please," he called and Severus made his way to the counter at the entrance. When the old man came back with two golden tins, putting them in a bag and taking the gold from Severus, he told him that he had put a card with instructions for the tea's preparation into each tin, wishing him "a nice day, Professor" when Severus exited the shop.
	Severus glanced into the bag. The first step had been taken, now he only had to walk up the stairs to Lupin's office in the evening, knock on his door, and give him the tea. That would start a conversation, no doubt. No reason to get nervous about it. It was just a normal meeting for a cup of tea. One like those he'd had with Albus a million times before. Only that this time he was bringing a gift, and the person he was going to have tea with wasn't his old, white-bearded, eye-twinkling, annoying boss. It was Remus Lupin, handsome and tempting. And many other things. Admittedly, Lupin, too, had twinkling eyes. But they were golden and their gaze was easier to bear. In fact it was desirable. And just when Severus thought that Lupin would see through him and interpret Merlin knew what into that tea, he remembered the twitching smile and the penetrating look and the vulnerable feeling they both incited in him.
	gift
	Lost in thought, trying to chase away the light feeling in his stomach, he ran straight into Minerva McGonagall, almost knocking her over. "Severus!" she cried, straightening her hat. He slipped the tea into his robes and nodded at her with a look that he knew she would recognise as apologetic. "What are you doing here?"
	"Shopping ingredients," he said curtly. And cursed her for not attending lunch with everybody else. He could have sworn that he had seen her enter the Great Hall.
	"Ah, I see," she muttered, sizing him up. "Well, then I'll see you in the castle." She turned and walked away into the direction of Honeydukes.
	While Severus was walking back up the street towards the castle, lost in thought, he passed the Dementors again, which were standing guard either side of the wrought-iron gates which led into the grounds. He hated passing them. It was pure torture. He felt dreadful every time he got too close to them, even more dreadful than he usually felt. Full of guilt, disappointment, bitterness, fear, and despair, he had to force himself to keep going, step by step. What was it really worth, this miserable, lonely life of his? Just keep putting one foot in front of the other, Snape, he thought, squinting up at the castle, as the sunlight that was reflected by Lupin's window up in one of the towers blinded him momentarily.
	? Just keep putting one foot in front of the other, Snape
	When he finally left the Dementors' coldness behind, staring up at that window, he was almost sure that he had seen the gleam of Lupin's golden eyes behind the glass. And indeed, a moment later the werewolf threw open the window and leaned forward on the windowsill, holding his face into the fresh air. Severus quickened his step but Lupin caught sight of him before he could reach the front doors. Lupin waved at him, once, nonchalantly, and Severus embarrassed himself by stumbling up the stone steps because his eyes were fixed on the werewolf's brown hair, gleaming in the sunlight. He did not return the wave.
	Severus was so preoccupied that he didn't pay much attention to the Gryffindor and Hufflepuff fifth-years in their double-Potions class that afternoon which was probably the reason why one of their cauldrons melted, burning a black hole into one of the tables in the third row. Severus took twenty points from Gryffindor quite gleefully and was in rather a good mood when he ascended to dinner. He was hoping for a quick word with Lupin to ask him if he could spare some time that evening but the werewolf was not at dinner – his absences seemed to be becoming a bad habit and Severus wondered if Lupin had difficulty handling his workload. But on the other hand, he thought he might just have backed out again if he had met Lupin, and he would like to see the look of – hopefully pleasant – surprise on Lupin's face when he simply appeared on his doorstep unannounced.
	After dinner, Severus made his way upstairs to Lupin's office, clutching the round tin full of tea in his pocket. He felt his neck growing warmer with every step and cursed himself for being such a fool, fussing like that. But he could not help wondering how Lupin would react, if he would accept the tea, proud as he was. He might think that it was pity. Ah, but he knew Severus too well to think that he had pity for anyone. Once Severus had reached the office, he looked around to make sure the corridor was deserted and knocked three times as usual. Feeling his heart stopping with silly nervousness, he held his breath in unfounded apprehension.
	"Come in, Severus," called Lupin from inside and Severus was taken aback for a moment. Had Lupin been expecting him or could he see through doors?
	Severus opened the door to the sight of the werewolf carrying a few boxes in his arms, smiling brightly, a faint flush on his cheeks. Severus stepped over the threshold, closing the door, and scowled at the werewolf. The Kappa had gone from its corner. "How did you know it was me?" asked Severus suspiciously.
	Lupin raised his eyebrows at him and put down the boxes on one of the shelves that were lining the walls. "I heard you walk along the corridor," he said as though it was the most obvious thing in the world. "Or rather, I heard you stride. A very loud way of walking, striding. And you have a very particular way of striding, I recognise you by the frequency and the vigour of your steps. There's a determination in your stride and there's a stride in your walk, even when you slow your step. Do you know what I mean? Surely there are people you recognise by merely hearing them walk? If you want to come here undetected you must creep, not stride."
	Lupin paused and considered Severus with an absent smile. Severus thought that somehow Lupin had said something very intimate. He did not quite know why, but what Lupin had said about recognising him by his stride gave Severus the feeling that they were close. Closer than just a minute ago. He looked into Lupin's amber eyes and wondered if he would recognise Lupin by his walk without knowing it was him.
	"Kind of you to visit me," said Lupin after a few moments. "I've missed dinner again, haven't I? So much work to get done ... I really need to get used to having a full timetable." He laughed softly.
	Severus hesitated for a moment, still caught in that slightly embarrassing feeling of familiarity that had washed over him just a moment ago. Then he cleared his throat and pulled the tea out of his pocket. Lupin's amber eyes wandered slowly to the tin in Severus's hand and his eyebrows elevated as the corners of his mouth twitched. After another moment of hesitation, Severus held out the tin to Lupin, whose hand positively sprang into the air to take it as though he had only waited for a sign to tell him that it was indeed for him.
	"I thought you might have use for this," said Severus and felt foolish despite everything as Lupin's smile widened in apparent delight. It suited him well.
	"Thank you so much, Severus, that wouldn't have been necessary," said the werewolf happily, turning the tin in his hands, and he took off the lid to sniff the contents.
	"I know," Severus said and bit his tongue. But Lupin just chuckled, obviously recognising the true meaning of those words.
	"From Leaf's Leaves?" asked Lupin, taking the card out of the tin. Severus nodded and smirked inwardly as Lupin's eyes grew rather round. "But, Severus, that must have cost you a fortune. You shouldn't have –"
	But Severus waved his hand as though to wipe the matter away. "Not at all," he said stiffly. "Though it would be only decent of you to invite me to a cup now, to test the quality. Of course I know that decency isn't exactly a Gryffindor strength ..."
	"Let's try it, then, shall we?" said Lupin pleasantly, smiling warmly at Severus as he opened the door to his rooms. Severus's stomach gave a pleasant jolt as he was invited into Lupin's private space. It was intimate somehow.
	Lupin indicated the sofa to Severus, which seemed to be what he thought was respectful, as his only private possession among the furniture, the armchair, was rather shabby. So Severus sat down, crossing his legs, and glanced around. The walls were still naked but for the Gryffindor flag and the books and the only other possession of importance was still the Lunascope. And perhaps one had to count the cage of the Redcap and its little inmate, which appeared to be asleep, and the Kappa in its tank, which was equally lazy. Lupin seemed to be spending most of his time in his office. Severus had a feeling that Lupin did not want to make himself too much at home. The werewolf produced two cups and a kettle out of thin air and took the card with instructions to read it carefully.
	"I have never had the privilege to drink white tea," he said cheerfully and tapped the kettle with his wand, making it whistle. "Never any gold to spare …" He smiled as he ladled tea into the pot with a spoon. Severus felt both uncomfortable and pleased. It was good that Lupin was grateful and satisfied, but Severus thought he had also made him feel – inadvertently so – that he was poor and Severus was rich. He had not meant to humiliate Lupin. Not today. He had meant to give him something to enjoy. Not to make the distance between them seem greater.
	Handing Severus a steaming cup, Lupin sat down opposite him in the threadbare armchair. Severus found that Lupin had put a piece of chocolate on each on their saucers, probably because of the Dementors, but he didn't touch it for now. They took a sip of tea at the same time and Severus stole a surreptitious glance at Lupin over the rim of his cup, tasting the mild tea, maybe a little too mild for his taste but apparently just right for Lupin, judging by the closed eyes and the smile on his lips that told of enjoyment. Lupin leant back in his armchair, a relaxed expression on his face, his cheeks still slightly flushed, and heaved a hoarse sigh, sending a pleasant shiver through Severus's body.
	"I have never drunk such good tea before," he said and rolled the cup between his hands as he gave Severus a look of too pronounced gratitude.
	"It is worth it's gold," Severus concurred and averted his eyes, maybe a little too late to conceal that he had been watching Lupin. "I am … pleased that you enjoy it."
	Lupin looked at him with a slight frown and Severus wondered if he had said something wrong. "I do," the werewolf said softly, and when Severus met his intense gaze, he thought that there lingered a deeper meaning in those two words. Lupin's eyes never left his when he took another sip of his tea. "You passed the Dementors, didn't you?" he asked then, quietly, and Severus let his eyes drift out of the window to the wrought-iron gates where the rotten creatures lurked.
	"Yes," he replied curtly.
	"I am just relieved that the Headmaster won't let them into the grounds," muttered the werewolf, still looking at Severus – and Severus wished he wouldn't, "I can barely stand their presence. What about you, Severus?"
	Severus didn't want to answer but his mouth spoke of its own accord. "Yes, indeed," he said coolly but he regained control over his voice before it could utter anything too intimate, "every time I pass them I feel nothing but despair. The cruel certainty that I shall never find a reason good enough to get Potter expelled clings to me stubbornly. The thought of having to bear him for five more years makes my skin crawl."
	Lupin gave him a half-heartedly scolding look. "I'm sure that Harry could say the same about you, my dear Severus," he said and Severus would almost have choked on his tea at the words "my dear". "And as far as I've heard, he's got good reason."
	"Many people do," Severus replied indifferently and Lupin raised his eyebrows.
	"And you don't care?" he asked and Severus sneered at him.
	"No," said Severus simply. Of course Lupin would not understand. He liked to be liked, he liked others easily, and it was easy to like him.
	"Personally, I like to be liked," said Lupin, indeed as though he had looked into Severus's mind. "You see, when people like me for who I am it tells me that I am not as bad as they would expect me to be if they knew what I am," said Lupin frankly. "It is proof that there really is no reason to hate me just because I am … a werewolf. And that is a good feeling. But you don't care if people like you at all?"
	Severus shook his head and Lupin cocked his head to one side, his golden eyes looking through Severus like only they could. No, Severus did not care. Not about the students, anyway. He found that being feared and respected was a good thing. If the price was hatred, what of it? As long as Lupin didn't hate him … but he could not tell Lupin that. He wouldn't tell him that he was glad of his presence here, that he didn't resent him anymore.
	Suddenly another smile spread over Lupin's face and he turned away with a knowing look, keeping to himself whatever he had seen in Severus's eyes. Taking a sip of his tea, Severus let the sweet taste roll slowly over his tongue and watched Lupin take a sip of his own. He feared that the werewolf had seen too much again, had perhaps glimpsed what Severus hadn't wanted to show him. But it was too late to worry now, he would have to be more careful about eye contact in future.
	"That bad?" said Lupin in a very hoarse voice and cleared his throat, achieving only little improvement. "When you pass the Dementors, I mean. Is it so bad that you need to distract me with sarcasm?"
	Severus stared at him for a moment. He really didn't need to say anything, it seemed, and he wondered why he even wasted his breath if Lupin could just look at him and read whatever Severus had to say in his eyes or wherever else it was written. Occlumency was no use. Lupin saw Severus's thoughts, no matter how tightly closed Severus's mind was. Severus didn't answer but took another sip of tea, looking at his shoes.
	"Another thing we have in common, it seems," muttered the werewolf and got up, strolling to the window to look out over the grounds. "I suppose we are very close to understanding why Harry faints when they draw near. It is cruel to laugh at him." Lupin's right hand moved to his left side, unconsciously it seemed, and his fingers dug into the fabric of his robes where they covered his waist. Severus narrowed his eyes. Maybe Lupin would never show him the scar left by the werewolf bite that had changed his life, but now Severus knew where to find it. Draining his cup and setting it down on the table, Severus got up and walked across the room to stand behind Lupin at an appropriate distance, glancing over his shoulder at the gates. The sweet smell that surrounded Lupin teased him with its faintness and appeared to be luring him closer. But he would not narrow the distance.
	"Do you remember the night when you were bitten?" asked Severus and knew it was tactless. But he wasn't exactly famous for his tact anyway.
	Lupin turned his head slightly. "When the Dementors are near me, I do. All of it," he almost whispered, and his face was suddenly paler even than usual. "The shock, the pain, the feeling of almost dying. And then I wish I had died. And I remember another night, watching their dead bodies being carried out of the ruined house, being told that Sirius was a traitor. And then I feel dreadfully alone." He stopped, passing a hand over his face.
	Severus looked away. Who was he to think that he was the only one suffering? Lupin had experienced pain that Severus did not know. And part of that pain had been caused by Severus's mistakes. There was a painfully constricting feeling in his throat now. A silence stretched between them that was so thick with unsaid words that it hurt Severus's ears and made them buzz. He wanted to break it, needed to break it. But what he wanted to say seemed unspeakable. He had never talked about it to anyone, not even Dumbledore. And yet, the werewolf's presence loosened his tongue and enabled him to utter what was too painful to even be thought about.
	"The guilt I feel when they are close is almost unbearable," he said, and was aware of Lupin's attention at once. "Though they are old deeds, very old deeds, the things I did when I was … a Death Eater … at the Dark Lord's service … so many cruel acts, so many deaths … they come to me as clearly as though they had been done recently. And I feel … unworthy of treading the same ground as the rest of you." He faltered and could say no more. He couldn't tell the werewolf the whole truth after all, feared the consequences.
	Lupin took the last sip from his cup and set it down on the windowsill, turning round to face Severus. He looked neither angry nor disgusted. He looked as though Severus's pain had been transferred to him. "I understand, Severus … you needn't say anything more," he said quietly and looked like a man who had seen and felt too much. "Everybody makes mistakes and they may haunt us forever if we don't forgive ourselves. What you did might be unforgivable. Yet, I choose to forgive you. But only forgiving yourself will really give you peace."
	Severus could hardly believe his ears. He knew he could not forgive himself. He could not forgive anyone anything and he was just as hard on himself. How could Lupin just do it as easily as though it was about breaking his favourite cup? Severus did not deserve it. However, he disagreed with Lupin on only finding peace in forgiving oneself. Lupin's forgiveness had given him some peace, and the feeling that he did not deserve it made him uncomfortable. He wished he had not said anything at all, had just let the silence stretch.
	"The mistakes I made in the past have created this rift between us that will probably last forever," said Lupin even more quietly, his amber eyes searching Severus's face. Severus was thankful for the change of topic and knew that Lupin had realised that Severus did not wish to speak about his own mistakes anymore. Lupin was very considerate. A pleasant character trait that Severus did not find in himself or anybody else he knew. He liked it. He appreciated the way Lupin knew things.
	knew 
	"Maybe not forever," said Severus in what he hoped was an offhand voice.
	Lupin's smile was very warm indeed. He stepped past Severus, pulling his sweet scent with him teasingly, and sat down on his armchair again, patting the sofa to make Severus follow suit. Severus complied without comment and they looked at each other in silence for a while. Severus saw that Lupin had something on his mind and was trying to decide whether or not it was wise to say it. It took him a while but then he said, "After the full moon you said – I didn't quite understand. You did not want me here, after all. I thought it was because you are frightened of what I am – because of what almost happened in the Shrieking Shack when we were children."
	Severus did not answer at first. Did he fear Lupin? He considered the werewolf and told himself "no" at once. There was nothing about Lupin that was anywhere near frightening. He did fear the wolf, yes, after having encountered it almost eighteen years ago, it was only natural not to foster a wish of seeing it again. But he had taken care of that part of Lupin, too, it was no longer dangerous. And Lupin, the man, Severus did not fear in the slightest, quite the contrary. He thought that, right now, he was enjoying his company extraordinarily much. Trust, however, was something completely other.
	"Mistrust and fear are not the same," he said slowly. "The danger of a werewolf poses cannot be denied, however, that does not mean that the human who suffers from lycanthropy should be feared or mistrusted. Most people don't realise that being a werewolf doesn't make one a dangerous or untrustworthy person. The reason why I did not want you here had nothing to do with your condition."
	Lupin's eyes were wide and incredulous when Severus looked into them. Severus couldn't help feeling uncomfortable. He took a deep breath, inhaling Lupin's faint sweet fragrance and looked into his amber eyes. Few times in his life had he looked at somebody who captivated him so, who was not only becoming in appearance but also gave him a pleasant feeling, whose company he didn't want to leave as soon as he could – on the contrary he wanted to prolong it. Lupin's attractiveness was not merely in his looks – it was much more than that, it was Lupin's voice, his personality, it was what lay hidden inside him, the kindness, the resolution, the calm, and the challenge they all posed. Severus's eyes found the little scar on Lupin's jaw and wandered to the werewolf's elegant hands, folded in his lap. He had not wanted him at Hogwarts. But now that he was there, Severus was glad of it.
	"I've already told you that I don't think of you as a Dark creature," said Severus, when Lupin seemed unable, for once, to express what he was feeling. "You are the host of a parasitic Dark creature, that is all. You deserve all the chances that I get and only use reluctantly and ungratefully most of the time. They should be yours, not mine." Severus meant every word, surprised by his own sincerity. Now he could give the werewolf something in return for his kindness. Lupin's eyes never left his. He was sitting on the very edge of his armchair, his knees almost touching Severus's, his posture somewhat stiff, as if expectant.
	"Why … why are you telling me this?" asked Lupin hoarsely and Severus had his answer ready.
	"I thought that it was necessary you heard it," he said firmly and looked straight into Lupin's eyes. "I thought that somebody ought to tell you."
	Lupin looked overcome with emotion then, and Severus was just wondering if it was indecent to watch the werewolf with this much greedy curiosity while he was so obviously moved and if Lupin would prefer him to avert his eyes, when something startling, something incredible happened, and his heart skipped a beat. For a split second, Severus thought that Lupin had come closer, had leant in to –
	But no … that must have been his imagination. Wishful thinking maybe. Though he had not known until now that this was actually his wish. It could not have happened. Why would Lupin – but the werewolf lowered his eyes as he sat up a little straighter, rubbing his neck with a grin and a furrowed brow, blushing slightly as he shook his head as though scolding himself for wanting to do something inappropriate or foolish. Could it be? Had Lupin wanted to do it, but thought better of it? Maybe because he expected rejection? Severus had never seen Lupin blush like this before, anyway. The thought made his heart pound faster. He had never really thought about anything like that, despite the feelings for Lupin that he couldn't deny. He would never have thought that Lupin would want it. But now that he was under the impression that it had almost happened, the wish was strong and clear in him, as though it had always been there. And he failed to feel ashamed or embarrassed. Being close to Lupin, wanting to be close to him, felt oddly right. He had not felt like that in a very long time. Maybe never quite like this.
	really
	The werewolf's hand fidgeted a little as though he would like to reach for Severus's but did not dare. He was still so close, almost, but not quite, touching Severus. Severus wanted Lupin to touch him. Wanted to feel his warm skin. He could not say or do it himself, though, so he waited for the werewolf to read it in his eyes, displaying the message in them as clearly as he could. But the golden eyes were directed at the floor, afraid, possibly, that Severus might have noticed his movement and realised what he would almost have done. And the moment was over.
	"Thank you for saying that, Severus," said Lupin to the floor and though his grin was still in place, Severus saw a single tear escaping through his eyelashes, dripping onto his knee. Lupin wiped his eyes with the back of his hand and did not give away that he was even aware of his short weakness when he looked at Severus, smiling normally again, though warmly, extremely warmly. "You have no idea what that means to me."
	Severus did have an idea. And he knew why Lupin had been overcome with emotion, unable, for a moment, to keep his cheerful mask in place. "Odd somehow …" said Severus and Lupin gave him an inquisitive look. "You said that our extraordinarily difficult lives have made us who we are. Of you it made an amiable teacher, liked by all … of me, though, well, you said it yourself, many have reason to dislike me."
	"Amiable?" laughed Lupin. "Well, thank you very much. But I think compared to you even Minerva would pass as amiable."
	Yes, Severus thought, the moment was definitely over. As though it had never happened at all. And it annoyed him. His face darkened before he could prevent it. As if Lupin would ever want to – as if anyone would …
	"I'm sorry, Severus," said Lupin, frowning, "I did not mean to offend you."
	Severus shook his head with a sneer. "You are right," he said simply, "nobody would call me amiable. I don't mind."
	Lupin smiled a little and picked up the tin of tea, looking at it as he turned it between his fingers. His reflection was distorted by its round, golden surface. He sighed. "By the way," he said, looking at Severus with that warm smile, "I said that I like to be liked, but your liking is most valuable to me."
	your
	At first, Severus was too surprised and embarrassed to reply, then he cleared his throat and tried to cover it up by putting on a mock haughty look and applying a mock serious tone. "It should be," he said silkily, trying not to appear too flattered, "as it is very rare, and hard-earned."
	The werewolf chuckled huskily and Severus wished he would never stop. Lupin liked to be liked by Severus. And it was most satisfying that Severus's liking was most important to him. For now it didn't even matter that Lupin knew that Severus harboured a liking for him, even though it was probably better kept a secret. Lupin's liking was most valuable to Severus, too, after all, and did feel like proof that Severus was better than he believed, that there was something about him that deserved Lupin's liking.
	The fireplace was empty, yet it was warm beside Lupin. Pleasant. All of this was pleasant. Severus looked at their knees, not even an inch apart. He wondered if he should move his leg just a little to the left as if accidentally, like he had done with his hand the other day. He would feel the werewolf's warmth stream into his body again. Should he dare?
	But he had no time to make up his mind because Lupin did so first. Severus wasn't sure if it had been intentional but he was glad it had happened. It was a short contact but unrivaled as of now in its intimacy. The effect was enormous. Heat shot through Severus's body, and at the same time he could barely suppress a shiver. Before Severus could indulge in it, however, Lupin moved his leg again, breaking contact, and reached for his wand on the table. The heat vanished from Severus's body at once, leaving his heart pounding embarrassingly loudly in his chest.
	"Another cup of tea?" asked Lupin pleasantly, turning towards Severus with one of his sweet smiles. "It would give you an excuse to stay a little longer, so I won't get the idea that you enjoy my company."
	Severus snorted, raising an eyebrow at Lupin, but he was too breathless now for a witty retort. "Why not," he said simply and when he finally popped into his mouth the chocolate Lupin had put on his saucer, he congratulated himself on the idea of giving Lupin tea.
	When the sun set after felt hours of pleasant silence and occasional snippets of just as pleasant conversation, Severus bade Lupin farewell, being thanked again "for everything", whatever that meant, before he was allowed to leave and make his way to the dungeons through the dark, deserted corridors. The white tea was still on his tongue as he passed window after moonlit window, wondering how it might have been, how sweet it would have tasted if Lupin had … if they had kissed.
	